## Page 1

2022  No. 30           A 901Civil Aviation Act, 2022
Federal Republic of Nigeria
Official Gazette
No. 153 Lagos - 24th  August, 2022 Vol. 109
Government Notice  No. 107
The following is published as supplement to this Gazette :
Act No. Short Title Page
30 Civil  Aviation  Act, 2022 .. .. .. .. .. .. .. A903-994
Extraordinary
Printed and Published by The Federal Government Printer, Lagos, Nigeria
FGP 141/92022/1,250
Annual Subscription from 1st January, 2022 is Local : N45,000.00 Overseas : N60,500.00 [Surface Mail]
N75,000.00 [Second Class Air Mail]. Present issue N3,500 per copy. Subscribers who wish to obtain Gazette
after 1st January should apply to the Federal Government Printer, Lagos for amended Subscriptions.

## Page 2

A 902           2022 No. 30 Civil Aviation Act, 2022

## Page 3

2022  No. 30           A 903Civil Aviation Act, 2022
CIVIL A VIATION ACT, 2022
\
ARRANGEMENT OF  SECTIONS
Section :
PART I — OBJECTIVES, APPLICA TION AND CONTROL OF CIVIL AVIA TION
1. Objectives.
2. Application of this Act.
3. Control of civil aviation.
PART II—ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NIGERIA CIVIL AVIA TION AUTHORITY
4. Establishment of the Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority.
5. Establishment of the Governing Board.
6. Tenure of office of the Chairman and members of the Board.
7. Allowances, expenses and any other entitlement of Chairman and
members of the Board.
PART III—FUNCTIONS AND POWERS OF THE AUTHORITY
8. Functions of the Authority.
9. Powers of the Authority.
10. Functions and powers of the Board.
PART IV—MANAGEMENT AND STAFF OF THE AUTHORITY
11. Appointment and tenure of the Director-General.
12. Appointment of Secretary to the Board.
13. Other staff of the Authority.
14. Service in the Authority to be pensionable.
15. Appointment of experts.
16. Establishment of Directorates and Inspectorates.
PART V—FINANCIAL PROVISIONS
17. Funds of the Authority.
18. Expenditure of the Authority.
19. Power to accept gifts.
20. Power to borrow and invest.
21. Power to impose fees for services.
22. Exemption from tax.
23. Air ticket, charter and cargo sales charge.

## Page 4

A 904           2022 No. 30 Civil Aviation Act, 2022
24. Accounts and audit.
25. Annual report.
PART VI—MINISTERIAL POWERS AND DIRECTIONS
26. Directions by the Minister.
27. Emergency powers of the Minister for the protection of public health.
28. Power of the Minister to make orders in emergency.
29. Designation of essential services.
30. Periodic publication of aviation policies.
PART VII—POWERS OF THE AUTHORITY TO CONTROL
AND REGULATE CIVIL AVIA TION
31. General power to regulate civil aviation.
32. Power to issue, amend, modify, suspend or revoke certificates.
33. Powers of the authority to conduct investigations.
34. Power of the Authority to make rules for the protection of public health.
35. Power of the Authority to prohibit certain activities.
36. Power to request for information.
37. Restriction on disclosure and use of information.
38. False information.
39. Regulation of airspace.
40. Regulation of air navigation service.
41. Grant of exemptions.
42. Aviation security.
43. Requirement for approval of airline security programme.
44. Security surveys, audits, tests and inspections.
45. Security checks of passenger and baggage.
46. Incident reporting, investigation and enforcement.
47. Validation of actions of the Civil Aviation Authority of other States.
48. Right of access for inspection.
49. Authority to prevent flight.
PART VIII—INTERNA TIONAL OBLIGA TIONS
50. Application of certain conventions.
51. Application of air services agreement and security funds.
52. Authority to act in consistency with international obligations.
53. Authority to enter into cooperation agreements.
54. Bilateral exchange of safety oversight responsibilities.
55. Carriers’ liability.
56. Application to aircraft of law of wreck and salvage.
57. Patent claims.
58. Infringement of patent.

## Page 5

2022  No. 30           A 905Civil Aviation Act, 2022
PART IX—NATIONALITY AND REGISTRA TION OF AIRCRAFT
59. Aircraft registration.
60. Recordation of interest in aircraft.
PART X—SAFETY REGULA TION
61. Duty to promote safety of civil aviation.
62. Establishment of State Safety Programme.
63. Airman licences or certificates.
64. Airworthiness certificates.
65. Air operator certificate.
66. Approved training and maintenance organisations.
67. Air navigation facility safety standards.
68. Duty of operators and airmen.
69. Transportation of dangerous goods by air.
70. Authority to inspect aircraft.
PART XI—PROVISION OF AERODROMES AND CONTROL OF LAND
FOR AVIA TION PURPOSES
71. Establishment of aerodromes.
72. Eligibility for an aerodrome certificate.
73. Charges for using certified aerodromes.
74. Obstructions near aerodrome.
75. Trespass on aerodromes.
76. Requirement for approval of aerodrome security programme.
77. Limitation on the construction of refuse disposal facility or site.
PART XII—CIVIL AND CRIMINAL PENALTIES
78. Power to impose civil penalties.
79. Actions in trespass, nuisance and damage by and  from aircraft.
80. Forgery or counterfeiting of documents.
81. Dangerous flying.
82. Damage to air navigation and other facility.
83. Hijacking and interference.
84. Endangering the safety, destroying or damaging of an aircraft.
85. Interference with crew members.
PART XIII—JURISDICTION
86. Jurisdiction to try offences under this Act.
87. Adoption of measures to avoid delays.
PART XIV—INVESTIGA TION AND ENFORCEMENT
88. Issuance of warrant for investigation.
89. Investigation or search without warrant.

## Page 6

A 906           2022 No. 30 Civil Aviation Act, 2022
90. Protection of informants and witnesses.
91. Complaints to and investigations by the Authority.
92. Oral, written and electronic evidence.
93. Video recording and custody of records.
94. Designation of agent for service.
PART XV—AIR OPERA TOR ECONOMIC REGULA TION
95. Control of air transport undertaking.
PART XVI—SUPPLEMENTARY PROVISIONS RELATING TO LICENCES AND PERMITS
96. Eligibility for licences and permits.
97. Refusal to grant licences or permits.
98. General duties relating to licensing function of the Authority.
99. Permit to foreign air operators.
100. Power to establish training facility.
101. Aviation safeguards.
102. Compensation schemes for passengers and other aviation services
consumers.
103. Regulation of sale, distribution and provision of allied services.
104. Insurance.
PART XVII—MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
105. Limitation of action against the Authority.
106. Restriction on execution against property of the Authority.
107. Indemnification of officers.
108. Cooperation with other agencies.
109. Power to acquire land.
110. Restriction on use of adjacent land.
111. Service of notices.
112. Service of documents.
113. Registration of births and deaths.
114. Repeals.
115. Savings provisions.
116. Transitional provisions.
117. Interpretation.
118. Citation.
SCHEDULES

## Page 7

2022  No. 30           A 907Civil Aviation Act, 2022
Commence-
ment.
CIVIL A VIATION ACT, 2022
ACT No. 30
AN ACT TO REPEAL THE CIVIL AVIATION ACT, NO. 6, 2006 AND ENACT THE CIVIL
AVIATION ACT, 2022 FOR THE REGULATION OF CIVIL AVIA TION IN NIGERIA ;
 AND FOR RELATED MA TTERS
[16th Day of  August, 2022]
ENACTED by the National Assembly of the Federal Republic of  Nigeria—
PART I—OBJECTIVES, APPLICA TION AND CONTROL OF CIVIL AVIA TION
1.  The objective of this Act are to —
(a) provide for an effective legal and institutional framework for the
regulation of civil aviation in Nigeria in conformity with the standards
and recommended practices set by the International Civil Aviation
Organisation (ICAO) ;
(b) establish rules of operation and divisions of responsibility within the
Nigerian civil aviation system in order to promote aviation safety and security ;
(c) ensure that Nigeria’s obligations under international aviation
agreements are  implemented ; and
(d) consolidate the laws relating to the regulation of civil aviation in
Nigeria.
2.—(1) Except as provided under subsection (2), this Act shall
apply to—
(a) all persons holding licences issued or validated by the Authority
pursuant to any regulations made under this Act ;
(b) every person, aircraft, air operator, aerodrome, aeronautical product,
aerodrome operator, air navigation service provider, aviation training school,
maintenance and repair organisation,  allied aviation service provider and
consumers of aviation services in Nigeria ;
(c) every Nigerian registered aircraft whether within or outside
Nigeria ; and
(d)  every foreign registered aircraft operating in Nigeria, into and out of
Nigeria.
(2) Nothing in this Act shall be interpreted as limiting the privileges or
immunities of —
(a) any foreign  State aircraft ; or
(b) the officers and crew of any foreign  State aircraft.
Objectives.
Application
of this Act.

## Page 8

A 908           2022 No. 30 Civil Aviation Act, 2022
3.  The Minister shall be responsible for the formulation of policies and
strategies for the promotion and encouragement of civil aviation in Nigeria
and the fostering of sound economic policies that assure the provision of efficient
and safe services by air carriers and other aviation and allied service providers
as well as greater access to air transport in a sustainable manner and to assist
with ensuring that Nigeria’s obligations under international agreements are
implemented and adhered to.
PART II—ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NIGERIA CIVIL AVIA TION AUTHORITY
4.—(1) There is established an autonomous body to be known as the
Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority (in this Act referred to as “the Authority”).
(2)  The Authority—
(a)  shall be a body corporate with perpetual succession and a common
seal ;
(b)  may sue or be sued in its corporate name ; and
(c)  may acquire, hold, purchase, mortgage, dispose  of or deal howsoever
with  property moveable or immoveable, real or personal.
(3)  The Authority shall be independent in the discharge of its duties and
functions under this Act and for that purpose shall not, except as provided
under this Act, take directives from any person or authority.
5.—(1) There is established for the Authority, a Governing Board (in
this Act referred to as “the Board”).
(2)  The Board shall consist of —
(a) a Chairman ;
(b) one representative each, who shall be within the directorate cadre,
from the Federal Ministry for the time being responsible for —
(i) Aviation, and
(ii) Defence ;
(c) the Director-General of the Authority.
(3)  The Chairman and members of the Board other than the Director-
General shall be appointed on part time basis by the President on the
recommendation of the Minister.
(4) The composition of the Governing Board shall reflect equity and
fairness as enshrined in section 14 (3) of the Constitution of the Federal
Republic of  Nigeria 1999.
(5) The Chairman and members of the Board, other than ex-officio
members, shall be persons of recognised expert knowledge, qualification and
experience of not less than 10 years in one or more of the following fields—
Control of
civil
aviation.
Establishment
of the
Nigeria Civil
Aviation
Authority.
Establishment
of the
Governing
Board.
Cap. C23,
LFN,
2004.

## Page 9

2022  No. 30           A 909Civil Aviation Act, 2022
(a) aeronautical engineering ;
(b) aviation law ;
(c) air transport management ;
(d) aerodrome engineering ;
(e) aircraft piloting ;
(f ) air navigation services ; and
(g) any other relevant field in civil aviation.
(6)  The supplementary provisions set out in the First Schedule to this
Act shall have effect with respect to the proceedings of the Board and any
other matter contained in it.
6.—(1)  The Chairman and members of the Board other than the Director-
General and ex-officio members shall hold office for a term of four years and
shall be eligible for re-appointment for another term of four years and no
more, and on such terms and conditions as may be specified in the letter of
appointment.
(2) The office of the Chairman or a member of the Board shall become
vacant where—
(a) his term of office expires ;
(b) he resigns his office by a notice in writing under his hand addressed
to the President through the Minister ;
(c) he dies ;
(d) he becomes of unsound mind or is incapable of carrying out his
duties as a result of physical or mental illness ;
(e) he has been declared bankrupt or he makes compromise with his
creditors ;
(f )  he has been convicted of a felony or any offence involving dishonesty ;
(g) he is found guilty of a gross misconduct ;
(h) in the case of a person possessed of professional qualification, he is
disqualified   or suspended  from practising his  profession in any part of the
world by an order of a competent authority ;
(i) in the case of an ex-officio member,  he ceases to hold the office on
the basis of which he is a member of the Board ; or
(j) he is in conflict of interest as stipulated under the First Schedule to
this Act.
(3)  Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (2), the President may
direct the removal of a member from the Board on the satisfaction that it is
not in the interest of the Authority or of the public for the person appointed to
continue in office.
Tenure of
office of the
Chairman
and
members of
the Board.
First
Schedule.
First
Schedule.

## Page 10

A 910           2022 No. 30 Civil Aviation Act, 2022
(4)  Where a vacancy occurs in the membership of the Board, it shall be
filled by an appointment by the President of a successor to hold office for the
remainder of the term of office of his predecessor and the successor shall
represent the same interest as that member whose exit created the vacancy.
7. The Chairman and members of the Board shall be paid such
allowances, expenses and benefits that are in accordance with extant Federal
Government financial guidelines and regulations.
PART III—FUNCTIONS AND POWERS OF THE AUTHORITY
8.—(1) The Authority shall be responsible for the—
(a) registration of aircrafts in Nigeria and issuance to the owners of
certificates of registration ;
(b) establishment and maintenance of a system or register for recording
the title to or any interest in any aircraft registered in Nigeria ;
(c)  prohibition of any Nigerian or foreign registered aircraft from
operating within the Nigerian airspace, unless a certificate of airworthiness
with respect to the aircraft, is issued or validated under extant laws and
regulations, provided that the foregoing prohibition shall not apply to any
aircraft undergoing test flight or flight to a place where prescribed
maintenance or repair is to be carried out ;
(d) inspection and regulation of aerodromes, inspection of aircraft
factories and for the prohibition or regulation of the use of aerodromes
which are not certified under the extant laws and regulations ;
(e) prohibition of any person from engaging in air navigation in any
capacity whatsoever unless the Authority determines that such a person
satisfies the requirement of this Act and the regulations made under it ;
(f )  issuance of rules and regulations for ensuring aviation safety, security,
the efficiency and regularity of air navigation, including  the safety of aircraft,
persons and property carried in aircraft and for preventing aircraft from
endangering any person and property ;
(g) prohibition of aircraft from flying over such areas in Nigeria as may
be prescribed ;
(h) issue,  validation,  renewal,  extension  or  variation  of  any certificate,
licence or any other document required by regulations, including the
examinations and tests to be undergone ;
(i) custody and production, cancellation, suspension, endorsement and
surrender of any document referred to under paragraph (h) ;
Allowances,
expenses and
any other
entitlement
of Chairman
and members
of the Board.
Functions
of the
Authority.

## Page 11

2022  No. 30           A 911Civil Aviation Act, 2022
(j)  issuance of rules and regulations on aviation environmental protection ;
(k) orderly development of Nigerian air transport sector for efficiency,
regularity and consumer satisfaction ; and
(l) regulation and promotion of competition, fair and efficient market
conduct of operators and to prevent monopoly, subject to the provisions of
the Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Act.
(2)  Without prejudice to the generality of this section, the Authority shall
have the power to do anything which may be incidental or expedient for the
performance of its functions under this Act.
(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law, the Authority
shall be solely responsible for the regulation of civil aviation in Nigeria.
(4) In the exercise of the powers conferred upon it and the performance
of its functions in this Act, the Authority, shall not submit its decision for the
approval of or be bound by the decision or recommendation of any person,
body or organisation but shall be guided by safety, security and public interest
considerations.
9.—(1)  The Authority shall have the power to—
(a) investigate whether any person, body or entity has committed an
offence under this Act or any other relevant law or regulation ;
(b) enter into any premises, property, aircraft, aerodrome  or conveyance
without warrant for the purpose of conducting search or inspection in
furtherance of its functions under this Act or under any other law ;
(c) prosecute offenders under this Act or any other relevant law in
Nigeria ;
(d) trace, seize, detain or retain the custody, for the purpose of investigation
and prosecution, of any property which the Authority reasonably believes
to have been involved in or used in the commission of any offence under
this Act or any other law ;
(e) seal up premises upon reasonable suspicion of such premises being
involved with or used in connection with any offence under this Act ;
(f ) seek and receive information from any person, authority, corporation
or company without let or hindrance in respect of the enforcement of any
of the provisions of this Act ;
(g) expropriate property for use in aeronautical search and rescue in
any emergency situation where necessary ;
(h) ensure coordinated aeronautical search and rescue operations within
the territory of Nigeria ; and
Act No. 1,
2018.
Powers of
the
Authority.

## Page 12

A 912           2022 No. 30 Civil Aviation Act, 2022
(i) permit owners of aircraft or authorities of the State of registry of
aircraft, subject to control by the Authority, to provide such measures of
assistance to aircraft in distress as may be necessary.
(2) The Authority shall ensure that arrangements for the certification,
maintenance and operation of search and rescue of aircraft and personnel
comply with civil aviation regulations.
10.—(1) The Board shall—
(a) formulate and provide general policy guidelines for the discharge of
the functions of the Authority ;
(b)  monitor and ensure the implementation of the policies and
programmes of the Authority ; and
(c) carry out any other function as is necessary or expedient in
consonance with the Board’s functions under this Act.
(2) The Board shall have power to—
(a) approve rules and regulations relating to the appointment, promotion
and disciplinary measures for the employees of the Authority ;
(b) consider the terms and conditions of service including remuneration,
allowances and benefits of the employees of the Authority and submit to
the relevant Federal Government agencies for approval ;
(c) consider and approve the terms and conditions of service and
remuneration, allowances and benefits of the inspectorate staff of the
Authority that are consistent with their education, technical knowledge,
experience and comparable to those personnel of the operators whose
activities they will supervise, in line with Chapter 5.3.1 of ICAO Document
8335 and Chapter 3.3.2.1 of ICAO Document 9734 ;
(c) regulate its proceedings and make standing orders with respect to
the holding of its meetings, notices to be given, the keeping of minutes of its
proceedings and any other matter as the Board may determine ;
(d) receive and review annual reports from the management of the
Authority and submit same to the President and the National Assembly,
through the Minister, not later than 30 June in each year ;
(e) submit not later than 30 September in each year to the Minister an
estimate of the income and expenditure of the Authority for the next
succeeding year ;
(f ) cause to be kept, proper accounts of the Authority in respect of each
year and proper records in relation to it and shall cause the accounts to be
audited not later than six months after the end of each year by auditors
appointed from the list and in accordance with the guidelines supplied by
the Auditor-General of the Federation ; and
Functions
and powers
of the
Board.

## Page 13

2022  No. 30           A 913Civil Aviation Act, 2022
(g) advise and direct the Director-General on the management of the
business and financial aspects of the Authority, provided that the functions
and powers of the Board shall not include the aviation safety and security
authority of the Director-General under this Act.
PART IV—MANAGEMENT AND STAFF OF THE AUTHORITY
11.—(1)  There shall be for the Authority a Director-General Civil Aviation
(in this Act referred to as “the Director-General”) who shall be appointed by
the President on the recommendation of the Minister, subject to confirmation
by the Senate.
(2)  The Director-General shall be primarily responsible for the fostering
of the safety and security of civil aviation in Nigeria and shall—
(a) be the chief executive and accounting officer of the Authority ;
(b) be responsible for the day-to-day administration of the Authority ;
(c) be appointed for a term of five years in the first instance and may be
re-appointed for a further term of five years and no more ;
(d) conduct the Authority’s affairs with prudence and due diligence to
ensure that the Authority does not become insolvent ; and
(e) possess relevant and adequate professional qualifications and shall
have been so qualified for a period of not less than 15 years in one or more
of the following fields—
(i)  aeronautical engineering,
(ii)  air transport management,
(iii)  aerodrome engineering,
(iv)  air craft piloting,
(v)  air navigation services,
(vi)  aviation law, or
(vii)  any other relevant field in civil aviation.
(3)  The Director-General may be removed from office by the President
subject to confirmation by the Senate, where he—
(a) becomes of unsound mind or is incapable of carrying out his duties
as a result of physical or mental illness or has demonstrated inability to
effectively perform the duties of his office ;
(b) has been absent from five consecutive meetings of the Board
without the consent of the Chairman unless he shows good reason for
such absence ;
(c) is guilty of serious misconduct ;
(d) in the case of a person possessed of professional qualifications, is
disqualified or suspended from practicing his profession in any part of the
world by an order of a competent authority ; or
Appointment
and tenure of
the Director-
General.

## Page 14

A 914           2022 No. 30 Civil Aviation Act, 2022
(e) is in a conflict of interest as stipulated in the First Schedule to
this Act.
(4) The Director-General shall not be removed from office except in
accordance with the provisions of this Act.
12.—(1) There shall be appointed by the Authority a Secretary to the
Board who shall be the legal adviser of the Authority and a legal practitioner
who has been so qualified for a period not less than 15 years.
(2) The Secretary shall—
(a) keep the records and conduct correspondence of the Board; and
(b) perform any other duty and function as the Board or the Director-
General may direct or assign to him.
13.—(1) The Authority may appoint such other staff as it may deem
necessary or expedient, for the purpose of carrying out its functions and
responsibilities under this Act.
(2)  The composition of the directors and senior management staff of
the Authority appointed under subsection (1) shall reflect equity and fairness
as enshrined in section 14 (3) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of
Nigeria, 1999.
(3) The staff of the Authority appointed under subsection (1) shall be
appointed on such terms and conditions of service as the Authority may
determine.
(4) The staff of the Authority shall be public officers as defined in the
Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999.
(5)  The Authority may, subject to the approval of the Board, make staff
regulations relating generally to the conditions of service of its employees
providing for —
(a) the appointment, promotion and staff discipline ;
(b) appeals by employees against disciplinary measures ; and
(c) any other matter to ensure the efficient performance of the functions
of the Authority under this Act.
(6) Staff regulations and conditions of service made under subsection
(4) shall not have effect until it is approved by the relevant Board.
(7)  Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (1) and (2), the Authority
shall have power to appoint either directly or on secondment from any public
service in the Federation or of a State, such number of staff as may, in its
opinion be required to assist it in the performance of any of the Authority’s
functions under this Act.
First
Schedule.
Appointment
of Secretary
to the Board.
Other staff
of the
Authority.
Cap. C23,
LFN, 2004.

## Page 15

2022  No. 30           A 915Civil Aviation Act, 2022
(8)  Nothing in subsection (7) shall preclude the Authority from appointing
persons from outside the public service of the Federation or of a State.
14.—(1)  Service in the Authority shall be public service for the purpose
of the Pension Reform Act and accordingly, officers and other staff of the
Authority shall in respect of their service in the Authority, be entitled to pension,
severance and other retirement benefits in conformity with provisions of the
Pension Reform Act and the approved conditions of service of the Authority.
(2)  Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), nothing in this Act
shall prevent the appointment of a person to any office on terms which preclude
the grant of pension and retirement benefits in respect of that office.
(3)  For the purpose of the application of the provisions of the Pension
Reform Act any power exercisable by a Minister or any other authority of the
Government of the Federation not being the power to make regulations is
vested in and shall be exercisable by the Board.
15. In exercising and performing the powers, functions and duties
conferred on it under this Act, the Authority may appoint, contract, liaise or
co-operate with experts, including specialised agencies, resource persons,
academic and technical institutes, advisory committees, in order to assist it in
carrying out any of its functions or duties.
16.—(1) For the effective conduct of the functions of the Authority,
there shall be established for the Authority, Directorates in accordance with
the laid down Government guidelines and the International Civil Aviation
Organisation Annexes.
(2)  Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1),  the Authority shall
have power to—
(a) set up units, technical committees, working groups and task forces to
assist the Authority in the performance of its duties and functions under this
Act ; and
(b) make changes to its structure, including the review or merging of
Directorates with the approval of the Board.
(3)  There shall be appointed for each of the Directorates, Units, Technical
Committees, Working Groups and Task Forces, a principal officer who shall
be known by such designation as the Authority may determine.
(4) The Director-General may delegate any assigned powers and duties
to any properly qualified private person or organisation, subject to such
regulation, supervision and review as may be prescribed, provided that such
function is not delegated in such a way that air operators, aerodrome operators,
aerial work operators, allied aviation service providers, general aviation
operators and maintenance facility operators, in effect, regulate themselves.
Service in
the
Authority to
be
pensionable.
Act No. 4
of  2014.
Appointment
of experts.
Establishment
of
Directorates
and
Inspectorates.

## Page 16

A 916           2022 No. 30 Civil Aviation Act, 2022
(5) The Director-General may delegate his safety and security oversight
powers to designated inspectors and any other staff of the Authority and shall
establish the credentials of the safety and aviation security inspectors of the
Authority.
(6) For the effective conduct of the functions of the Authority, there
shall be established an organisational structure that will ensure a comprehensive
and detailed safety oversight of civil aviation, taking into cognizance the size,
scope and complexity of aviation activities in Nigeria.
(7) The Authority shall have power to provide, as required in the interest
of aviation safety and security, the necessary facilities and tools for the
Directorates, Units, Technical Committees, Working Groups and Task Forces.
PART V — FINANCIAL PROVISIONS
17.—(1)  There shall be established for the Authority a Fund from which
all expenses incurred by the Authority for the execution of its functions under
this Act shall be paid.
(2) There shall be credited to the Fund established under
subsection (1)—
(a) all subventions and budgetary allocations from the Government of
the Federation ;
(b) all fees and funds in respect of services provided by the Authority,
and accruing from—
(i) grant of air travel organiser’s licence,
(ii) grant of air transport licence, airline operating permit or permit for
non-commercial flights,
(iii) grant of air operator certificate,
(iv) grant of personnel licences,
(v) 56% of the 5% airfare, contract, charter, cargo sales and
management fee charges imposed under section 23 of this Act,
(vi) grant of approved maintenance organisation  approval,
(vii) aircraft registration and certification,
(viii) grant of certificate of airworthiness (issue and renewal),
(ix) rental of property, plant and equipment,
(x) medical examination fees, where applicable,
(xi) proceeds from sales of information and publications,
(xii) registration of agencies,
(xiii) registration of legal instruments and interests,
(xiv) grant of aerodrome, heliport and helipad operating licences,
(xv) grant and renewal of aviation height clearance approval,
Funds of the
Authority.

## Page 17

2022  No. 30           A 917Civil Aviation Act, 2022
(xvi) approval of aviation training organisations,
(xvii) grant of aviation security screener’s certificate,
(xviii) grant of aviation security service provider approval,
(xix) grant of aviation security training provider certificate,
(xx) grant of aviation security instructor authorisation,
(xxi) any licence, certificate, permit, contract or lease issued under
the provisions of this Act, and
(xxii) training and consultancy ;
(c) all civil penalties payable for violation of the provisions of this Act
and regulations, rules and orders, directives and terms of permit, authorisation
and approvals ;
(d) all sums accruing to the Authority by way of gifts, endowments,
bequests, grants or any other contributions by any person and organisation;
(e) returns on investments ;
(f ) foreign aid and assistance ; and
(g) all other sums which may accrue to the Authority.
(3) The Fund established under subsection (1) shall be managed in
accordance with extant Financial Regulations applicable in the Public Service
of the Federation.
18.  The Authority may apply the proceeds of the Fund established
under section 17 of this Act —
(a) for the payment of salaries, fees and any other remuneration or
allowance, payable to members of the Board, employees or any other person
appointed by the Authority ;
(b) to pay overhead, benefits and other administrative costs of the
Authority ;
(c) for the reimbursement of members of the Board or any committee set
up by the Board or the Authority for such expenses as may be authorised in
accordance with the rates approved by the Government of the Federation ;
(d) to publicise and promote the activities of the Authority ;
(e) for the maintenance of any property acquired or vested in the
Authority ;
(f ) for the maintenance of missions and payment of contributions and
subscription to international and regional aviation safety and security
organisations of which Nigeria is a member ;
(g) for the training and re-training of staff of the Authority to meet ICAO
requirements ; and
(h) to undertake any other activity  or matter connected with all or any
of the functions of the Authority under this Act.
Expenditure
of the
Authority.

## Page 18

A 918           2022 No. 30 Civil Aviation Act, 2022
19.—(1) The Authority may accept gifts of land, money or other property
on such terms and conditions, if any, as may be specified by the person or
organisation making the gift.
(2)  The Authority shall not accept any gift where any condition attached
by the person or organisation making the gift is inconsistent with the functions
of the Authority under this Act.
20. (1) Subject to applicable laws and regulations, the Board may borrow
by overdraft or otherwise, such money as the Authority may require for the
performance of its functions under this Act.
(2) The Board shall not, without the approval of the President borrow
money, which exceeds, at any time, the limit set by the Government of the
Federation.
(3)  Notwithstanding subsection (1), where the sum to be borrowed is in
foreign currency, the Board shall not borrow the sum without the prior approval
of the President on the recommendation of the Minister.
(4)   The Board may, subject to the provisions of this Act and the conditions
of any trust created in respect of any property, invest all or any of its funds in
accordance with any general guidelines approved by the President.
(5) The Board may invest funds in such securities as it deems fit and
proper.
(6) The Authority shall strive to recover the whole of its costs and to
achieve reasonable returns on capital and investment.
21.—(1) The Authority shall carry out its functions on cost recovery
basis.
(2)  The Authority may impose fees which may be reviewed, for the
services of the Authority, including authorisations, approvals, inspections and
for the issue and renewal of permits, licences and certificates, and shall maintain
and publish a schedule of all such fees that it may impose.
(3)  Notwithstanding the provision of any other law, policy or circular in
force, any fee imposed by or on behalf of the Authority shall not be subject to
any deduction by or remittance to any other body.
(4) Notwithstanding the provision of section 22 (1) of the Fiscal
Responsibility Act, the Authority shall allocate two-thirds of its operating surplus
for the year to the general reserve fund established under that section.
22.—(1) The Authority shall be exempted from the payment of tenement
rates and income tax or any other tax in force.
Power to
accept gifts.
Power to
borrow and
invest.
Power to
impose fees
for services.
Act No 31,
2007.
Exemption
from tax.

## Page 19

2022  No. 30           A 919Civil Aviation Act, 2022
(2)  The provision of any law relating to the taxation of the income of
any company or contribution to any trust fund shall not apply to the Authority.
23.—(1) There shall be a 5% of airfare, contract, charter and cargo
sales charge payable to the Authority which charge shall apply on all
international and domestic air transportation originating in Nigeria irrespective
of place of sale, issuance of air ticket or execution of the contract of carriage.
(2) The 5% of airfare, contract, charter and cargo sales charge shall be
chargeable on the total amount, excluding statutory fees and taxes—
(a) paid by  a  passenger for an airfare ;
(b) in a contract relating to carriage of persons or goods for hire and
reward in the case of air transportation not involving the issuance of an air
ticket ;
(c) paid for a charter flight ; and
(d) of the cargo sales.
(3)  The Authority may delegate the power to collect the 5% of airfare,
contract, charter and cargo sales charges to airlines and such funds collected
shall be remitted to the Authority.
(4)  The Authority shall by regulations prescribe the manner and time for
making remittances of the funds collected on its behalf by the airlines.
(5) The 5% of airfare, contract and charter sales charge (CSC) payable
to the Authority shall apply to all operators engaged in transportation of persons
by air for hire and reward whether using rotary or fixed wing aircraft.
(6)  All Air Operator Certificate (AOC) holders, who manage fleet of
aircraft other than that of the operator, which aircraft is included in the
operations specifications or authorisation of the operator shall pay a 5% CSC
management fee arising from such contracts.
(7) The 5% of  airfare, contract, charter and cargo sales charges and
management fee shall be paid in the currency of the transaction and may be
reviewed by regulations or orders made by the Authority.
(8) Funds accruing from the charges referred to under subsection (7)
shall be distributed in the following manner —
(a) Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority — 56% ;
(b) Nigerian Airspace Management Agency — 22% ;
(c) Nigerian Meteorological Agency — 9% ;
(d) Nigerian College of Aviation Technology — 7% ; and
(e) Accident Investigation Bureau — 6%.
Air ticket,
charter and
cargo sales
charge.

## Page 20

A 920           2022 No. 30 Civil Aviation Act, 2022
(9)  Where any of the agencies listed under subsection (8) is privatised,
it shall immediately cease to share in the funds and the share of such privatised
agency shall be applied or distributed in equal percentage among the remaining
agencies.
(10)  An air operator which fails to remit or pay to the Authority,
within the time specified in the relevant regulations made under this Act,
the 5% of airfare, contract, charter, cargo, sales charge and management
fee collected under this section, commits an offence and its directors are
each liable on conviction to a fine of N5,000,000 or imprisonment for a
term of two years or both.
24.—(1) The Authority shall keep proper records and accounts of its —
(a) receipts, payments, assets and liabilities, and
(b) income and expenditure,
in a form which conforms with existing laws on accounts and audit.
(2) The Authority shall submit the accounts annually, for auditing by a
qualified auditor from the list of auditors and in accordance with the guidelines
provided by the Auditor-General for the Federation.
25.  The Authority shall, not later than 30 September in each year, submit
to the President through the Minister, a report of its activities during the
immediate preceding calendar year and shall include in such report a copy of
the audited accounts of the Authority for that calendar year.
PART VI—MINISTERIAL POWERS AND DIRECTIONS
26.—(1) The Minister may, after consultation with the Authority, give
such directions consistent with the provisions of this Act to the Authority on
matters of policy in—
(a) the interests of national security ;
(b) connection with any matter appearing to him to affect the relations
of Nigeria with a country or territory outside Nigeria ;
(c) order to discharge or facilitate the discharge of an obligation binding
on Nigeria by virtue of its being a member of an international organisation
or a party to an international  or regional agreement ;
(d) order to  obtain or facilitate the  attainment  of  any other object  of
which is in his opinion appropriate in view of the fact that Nigeria is a
member of an international organisation or a party to an international or
regional agreement ; or
(e) order to enable Nigeria become a member of an international
organisation or a party to an international or regional agreement.
Accounts
and audit.
Annual
report.
Directions
by the
Minister.

## Page 21

2022  No. 30           A 921Civil Aviation Act, 2022
(2) The Authority in the exercise of its functions and powers shall be
guided by such direction given under subsection (1).
(3) The Authority shall furnish the Minister with such information or
facilities for obtaining information with respect to its activities as the Minister
may require.
27.—(1) Where the Minister is satisfied that Nigeria or any part of it is
visited by or threatened with an outbreak of any dangerous epidemic disease,
and that the ordinary provisions of the law for the time being in force is
insufficient for the prevention of danger arising to public health through the
introduction or spread of the disease by agency of aircraft, the Minister may
take such measures as deemed necessary to prevent such danger.
(2) In any of the cases referred to under subsection (1), the Minister
may, without prejudice to the powers conferred by sections 3 and 26 of this
Act, make such temporary orders to be published in the Federal Goernment
Gazette with respect to aircraft and persons travelling or things carried in it
and aerodromes as he deems necessary in the circumstances.
(3)  Any order made under subsection (2) shall not remain in force for
more than three months from the date made, provided that the Minister may,
by special order continue in force for a further period of not more than three
months.
(4) In making any order under this section, the Minister may direct that
a person in breach of it commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine
of at least N1,000,000 or imprisonment for a term of at least one year or both.
28.—(1) In time of war, whether actual or imminent or where a
proclamation of emergency under the Constitution is in force in the Federal
Republic of Nigeria or any part of it, where the Minister is of the opinion that in
the interest of public safety or tranquility, the issue of all or any of the following
orders is expedient, he may by notification in the Federal Government Gazette—
(a) cancel or suspend, either absolutely or subject to such conditions as
he may think fit to specify in the order, all or any licences, permits,
certificates or other authorisations issued under this Act ;
(b) prohibit either absolutely or subject to such conditions as he may
think fit to specify in the order, or regulate in such manner as may be
contained in the order, the flight of all or any aircraft or class of aircraft
over the whole or any part of Nigeria ;
(c) prohibit, either absolutely or conditionally, or regulate the erection,
maintenance or use of any aerodrome, aircraft factory, flying-school or
club, or place where aircraft is manufactured, repaired or kept, or any class
or description of it ;
Emergency
powers of
the Minister
for the
protection
of public
health.
Power of
the Minister
to make
orders in
emergency.

## Page 22

A 922           2022 No. 30 Civil Aviation Act, 2022
(d) direct that any aircraft or class of aircraft, or any aerodrome, aircraft
factory, flying school or club, or place where aircraft is manufactured,
repaired or kept, together with any machinery, plant, material or thing used
for the operation, manufacture, repair or maintenance of aircraft shall be
delivered, either forth with or within a specified time, to such authority and
in such manner as he may specify in the order, to be at the disposal of the
Federal Government of Nigeria for the public service ; or
(e) direct that any airline operator having its principal place of business
in Nigeria, or an aerodrome operator or a provider of air traffic and
meteorological services, and the employees of such airline operator,
aerodrome operator or provider of air traffic and meteorological services,
shall carryout flights, and other duties connected with operation of flights,
in the public interest in the manner specified in the order.
(2)  Any order made under subsection (1) shall have effect,
notwithstanding anything inconsistent with it contained in any regulation made
under this Act or any other law in force in Nigeria.
(3)  Any person who suffers direct injury or loss by reason of any order
made under paragraph (c), (d) or (e) of subsection (1) shall be paid such
compensation as may be determined by such authority or person as the Minister
may appoint in this behalf.
(4) The Minister may authorise such steps to be taken to secure
compliance with any order made under subsection (1) as may be deemed
necessary.
(5)  Any person who knowingly disobeys, fails to comply with, or does
any act in contravention of an order made under subsection (1), commits an
offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of at least N200,000 or imprisonment
for a term of at least six months or both, and the court by which he is convicted
may direct that the aircraft or thing, if any, in respect of which the offence has
been committed, or any part of such aircraft or thing, be forfeited to the Federal
Government of Nigeria.
29.—(1) All services which facilitate and maintain the smooth, orderly
and safe takeoff, flight and landing of aircraft, embarkation and the disembarkation
and evacuation of passengers and cargo respectively in all aerodromes in Nigeria
are hereby designated as essential services under the provisions of section 11
(1) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999.
(2)  The Minister may by regulations prohibit all or such class or classes
of workers, officers and other employees or persons whether corporate or
natural, engaged in the provision of the services specified in subsection (1)
from taking part in a strike or other industrial action.
Designation
of essential
services.
Cap. C23,
LFN, 2004.

## Page 23

2022  No. 30           A 923Civil Aviation Act, 2022
(3) In this section, “strike” means the cessation of work by a body of
persons employed, acting in combination or a concerted refusal or a refusal
under a common understanding of persons employed to continue to work for
an employer in consequence of a dispute, done as a means of compelling their
employer, or the Government of the Federation of Nigeria or any part of it, or
to aid any other worker in compelling his employer or any person or body of
persons employed, to accept or not to accept terms of employment and physical
conditions of work or any government economic policy or pricing of any essential
product, and in this definition—
(a) “cessation of work” includes working at less than usual speed
or with less than usual efficiency without reasonable operational
justification ; and
(b) “refusal to continue to work” includes a refusal to work at usual
speed or with usual efficiency.
30.—(1) The Minister may publish a statement of the policies of the
Government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria on civil aviation.
(2) Where the Minister considers it appropriate to do so, he may by
notice in writing, require the Authority to publish a statement of the policy it
intends to adopt with respect to any particular matter in exercising the powers
and performing the functions conferred upon it under this Act and it shall be
the duty of the Authority to publish the statement required by such a notice.
(3) Before publishing any statement under this section, the Authority
shall consult such persons as may appear to it to be the representative
respectively of —
(a) the civil aviation industry in Nigeria ; and
(b) users of air transport and allied aviation services.
(4)  The manner of publication of any statement under this section shall
be as the Authority may determine.
PART VII—POWERS OF THE AUTHORITY TO CONTROL
AND REGULATE CIVIL AVIA TION
31.—(1) The powers conferred on and the functions of the Authority in
this Act are vested in the Director-General who may exercise them directly or
by delegation—
(a)  for carrying out the Convention on International Civil Aviation (in
this section referred to as “the Convention”) concluded at Chicago on the
7th day of December, 1944, any annex to the Convention which relates to
international standards and recommended practices and is adopted in
accordance with the Convention, and any amendment of the Convention or
of any of such annex which is made in accordance with the Convention ;
Periodic
publication
of aviation
policies.
General
power to
regulate civil
aviation.

## Page 24

A 924           2022 No. 30 Civil Aviation Act, 2022
(b) for carrying out any other treaty or agreement in the field of civil
aviation to which Nigeria is a party ;
(c) for regulating air navigation ; and
(d) generally for ensuring aviation safety and security, the efficiency
and regularity of air navigation and the safety of aircraft, persons and
property carried in aircraft and for preventing aircraft from endangering
persons and property.
(2)  The powers conferred upon the Authority under this section includes
the powers to develop, make, issue and revise regulations, rules, orders, terms
and conditions in respect of any matter relating, incidental, or supplemental to
it, or such matter as the Authority may deem necessary in the public interest
and safety of air navigation.
(3)  The powers conferred upon the Authority under this section includes
the powers to develop, make, issue and revise regulations, rules, orders,
directives, advisory circulars, terms and conditions in respect of any matter
relating, incidental, or supplemental to it, or such matter as the Authority may
deem necessary in the public interest and safety and security of civil aviation.
(4) Regulations, rules, orders and directives made or given under this
section shall provide for the imposition of  penalties for non-compliance, including
the suspension or revocation of certificates, licences, validations and
authorisations, and in the case of any particular offence such fine as may be
prescribed by regulations made by the Authority and or imprisonment for a
term not less than six months, and, subject to Chapter IV of the  Constitution
of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999, which relates to fundamental rights,
for the taking of such steps including the interception of aircraft as may be
prescribed as respects aircraft flying over areas of Nigeria over which flying
is prohibited by the regulations.
(5)  In the exercise of its power to make regulations under this section,
the Authority shall consult with stakeholders including airlines, aerodrome
operators, air traffic control service providers, consumers and any other relevant
body and organisation in the aviation industry.
(6)  In the exercise of its power to make regulations under this section,
the Authority shall consult with stakeholders including airlines, aerodrome
operators, air navigation service providers, consumers and any other relevant
body and organisation in the aviation industry.
(7)  Where the Authority is of the opinion that an emergency requiring
immediate action exists with respect to safety and security in civil aviation,
the Authority shall have the power, either upon complaint or on the Authority’s
initiative without complaint, at once, if the Authority so orders, without answer
Cap. C23,
LFN,
2004.

## Page 25

2022  No. 30           A 925Civil Aviation Act, 2022
or other form of pleading by the interested person or persons, and with or
without notice, hearing, or the making or filing of a report, to make such orders,
rules, or regulations or issue such directives as may be essential in the interest
of safety and security in civil aviation to meet such emergency.
32.—(1) The Authority shall have power to—
(a) issue, amend, vary, cancel, refuse and suspend approved training
organisation certificates or maintenance organisation certificates in
conformity with regulations made under this Act ;
(b) issue, amend, vary, cancel, refuse and suspend an aircraft and
aeronautical products design and production certificate in conformity with
regulations made under this Act ;
(c) issue, validate or accept type certificates and prescribe in such
certificates, terms, conditions and limitations as is required in the interest of
safety ;
(d) issue, renew or validate certificates of airworthiness in respect of an
aircraft, and specify in such certificates, the duration of such certificates,
the type of services for which the aircraft may be used and such other
terms, conditions or limitations as is required in the interest of safety ;
(e) issue, amend, vary,  cancel and  suspend airworthiness  approvals,
licences  and certificates in conformity with regulations made under this
Act ;
(f ) develop, issue and amend airworthiness   directives, bulletins,
orders, terms and conditions to bring it in to conformity with airworthiness
regulations ;
(g) issue, amend, vary, cancel, refuse and suspend aerodrome certificates ;
(h) issue, amend, vary, cancel or suspend such other certificates, licences
or authorisations issued pursuant to regulations made under this Act ; or
(i) specify the fees to be paid for the issue, validation, acceptance, renewal,
extension or variation of any certificate, licence or any other document
issued under this Act or  the undergoing of any examination or test required
which may be expedient for the purpose of the regulation of fees charged.
(2)  Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing subsections, the
Authority’s power shall include the power to make regulations as to the manner
and conditions of the issue, validation, acceptance, renewal, extension or
variation of any certificate, licence or other document required by the
regulations including the examinations and tests to be undergone, and as to the
form, custody, production, cancellation, suspension, endorsement and surrender
of any such document.
Power to
issue,
amend,
modify,
suspend or
revoke
certificates

## Page 26

A 926           2022 No. 30 Civil Aviation Act, 2022
(3)  An application for the variation, suspension or revocation of a licence,
permit, certificate or any other authorisation may be made to the Authority at
any time in such manner and by such person as may be prescribed by the
Authority.
(4) The Authority may at any time vary, suspend, revoke and cancel, a
licence, permit, certificate or any other authorisation where it considers it
appropriate to do so, whether or not such an application with respect to the
licence, permit, certificate or authorisation has been made under subsection (3).
(5)  The Authority may exercise its powers to revoke, cancel, suspend
or vary a licence, permit, certificate or authorisation (whichever is appropriate
in the circumstances) where it is not or is no longer satisfied that —
(a) the holder is fit and proper to hold the licence, permit, certificate or
other authorisation, having regard to—
(i) his and his employees’ experience in the field of aviation and his
and their past activities generally, and
(ii) where the holder of the licence, permit, certificate or other
authorisation is a body corporate, the experience in the field of aviation
and the past activities generally of the persons appearing to the Authority
to control that body while conducting air transport business under the
authority of the licence, permit, certificate or other authorisation ;
(b) the resources of the holder of the licence, permit, certificate or other
authorisation and the financial arrangements made by him are adequate for
discharging his actual and potential obligations in respect of the business
activities in which he is engaged ; and
(c) the holder of a licence, permit, certificate or other authorisation subject
to section (1) is a citizen of Nigeria or such company or body as mentioned
in section 96 (1) of this Act.
(6) The Authority may exercise its powers under this Act to revoke,
suspend or vary a licence, permit, certificate or authorisation (whichever is
appropriate in the circumstances) where it is satisfied that the holder of a
licence has contravened any of the provisions of this Act or any regulation
made under it especially any provision and regulations relating to safety and
security or any provision or regulation the breach of which constitutes an
offence under this Act or such regulation.
(7)  The provisions of subsections (1), (2), (3) and (4) conferring on the
Authority power to vary, cancel, suspend and revoke a licence, permit,
certificate or other authorisation shall be construed as conferring on the
Authority power to provide, by a notice in writing served in the prescribed

## Page 27

2022  No. 30           A 927Civil Aviation Act, 2022
manner on the holder of the licence, permit, certificate or other authorisation
that the licence, permit, certificate or other authorisation shall not be effective
during a period specified in the notice.
(8)  The Authority may, while a licence, permit, certificate or other
authorisation is ineffective by virtue of such a notice, by a further notice in
writing served in the  prescribed manner on the holder, provided that the licence,
permit, certificate or other authorisation shall be effective on and after a date
specified in the further notice, but the further notice shall not prejudice the
Authority’s powers to suspend the licence, permit, certificate or other
authorisation again or to revoke or vary it.
(9) The Authority may, for any reason, re-inspect or re-examine any
civil aircraft, aircraft engine, propeller, appliance, air operator, aerodrome,
aerodrome operator, school, approved maintenance organisation and allied
aviation service provider or any civil airman holding a licence or certificate
issued under this Act.
(10)  Where, as a result of any of such re-inspection or re-examination,
or where, as a result of any other investigation the Authority determines that
safety and security in civil aviation or commercial air transport and the public
interest requires, the Director-General may issue a notice amending, modifying,
suspending, or revoking, in whole or in part, any airworthiness certificate or
licence, airman licence or certificate, air operator certificate or licence, licence
or certificate for any aerodrome, school,  approved maintenance organisation
or allied aviation service providers issued under this Act.
(11)  Prior to amending, modifying, suspending, or revoking any of the
foregoing licence or certificate, the Director-General shall advise the holder
of it as to any charges or reasons relied upon by the Director-General for the
proposed action and, except in cases of emergency, shall provide the holder of
such a certificate or licence an opportunity to answer any charge and be
heard as to why such certificate or licence should not be amended, modified,
suspended, or revoked.
(12)  Any person whose certificate or licence is affected by an order of
the Authority under this section may appeal in accordance with regulations
made under this Act.
(13)  The filing of an appeal under this section shall not stay the decision
of the Authority.
33.—(1) The Authority shall have the power to perform such acts, conduct
such investigations, impose such penalties, issue and amend such orders, and
to make and amend such general or special rules, regulations, and procedures
pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of this Act, as the Authority
Powers of
the
authority to
conduct
investigations.

## Page 28

A 928           2022 No. 30 Civil Aviation Act, 2022
shall deem necessary to carry out the provisions of, and the exercise and
performance of the powers and duties assigned under this Act.
(2) In the conduct of any public hearing or investigation authorised by
this Act, the Authority shall have the power to take evidence, issue subpoenas,
and take depositions.
(3) In the exercise and performance of the powers and duties assigned
under this Act, the Authority shall consider the promotion, encouragement and
development of safety and security in civil aviation as being in the public
interest.
34.—(1) The Authority in consultation with other relevant government
agencies may make regulations for the prevention of danger arising to public
health by the introduction or spread of any infectious or contagious disease
from aircraft arriving at or being at any aerodrome and for the prevention of
the conveyance of infection or contagion by means of any aircraft leaving an
aerodrome.
(2) The Authority may, by regulation provide that a person who breaches
any regulation made under subsection (1), commits an offence and is liable on
conviction to a fine of at least N200,000 or imprisonment for a term of at least
one month or both.
35. The Authority shall have the power to make regulations for —
(a) the prohibition of any Nigerian or foreign registered aircraft from
operating within the Nigerian airspace, unless a certificate of airworthiness
in respect of it, is issued or validated under the regulations in force with
respect to the aircraft ;
(b) the prohibition of any person from engaging in air navigation in any
capacity whatsoever unless the Authority determines that such a person
satisfies the requirements of this Act and the regulations made under it ;
(c) the prohibition of aircraft from flying over such areas in Nigeria as
may be prescribed ;
(d) the prohibition of aircraft from flying unless certificates of
airworthiness issued or validated under the regulations are in force with
respect to the aircraft and except upon compliance with such conditions as
to maintenance and repair as may be prescribed ;
(e)  the prohibition or regulation of the use of aerodromes which are not
certified under the regulations ;
(f ) prohibiting persons from engaging in, or being employed in or in connection
with, air navigation in such capacities as may be prescribed unless the prescribed
requirement is satisfied, and for the licensing of persons employed at aerodromes
or in the inspection, testing or supervision of aircraft ;
Power of the
Authority to
make rules
for the
protection
of public
health.
Power of the
Authority to
prohibit
certain
activities.

## Page 29

2022  No. 30           A 929Civil Aviation Act, 2022
(g) prohibiting the carriage by air of goods of such class or classes as
may be prescribed ; and
(h) prohibiting or regulating the installation of any structure which by
virtue of its height or position is considered to endanger the safety of air
navigation within the navigable airspace of Nigeria.
36.—(1) For the purpose of obtaining required information for the proper
performance of the functions conferred upon it by this Act, any authorised
officer of the Authority may by notice in writing —
(a) require any person who undertakes the business of air transport
including carriage of passengers or goods in an aircraft for reward, to furnish
such information relating to such business and flights as may be specified in
the notice ; and
(b) specify the times and the form and manner in which, any information
required under paragraph (a) shall be furnished.
(2) In performing the functions conferred on the Authority by subsection
(1), an authorised officer of the Authority shall have unrestricted access to
inspect the business premises, aircraft, structures and other apparatus and
documents used by any operator for the purpose of air transport or related
operations.
(3) In this section, “authorised officer” means the Director-General or
any other officer of the Authority specifically or generally authorised by the
Director-General to perform the functions of the Authority under this Act.
37.—(1) The Authority shall not make available or use safety data for
other purposes other than safety-related purposes unless an appropriate authority
determines, in accordance with any law in force in Nigeria, that the value of the
disclosure or use of the information in any particular case, outweighs the adverse
impact such disclosure or use may have on aviation safety and security—
(a) in accordance with directions given by the Authority for the purpose
of the performance of any of its functions under this Act ;
(b) for the purposes of any proceedings under this Act ; or
(c) as required under the Freedom of Information Act.
(2) An estimate, return or information relating to an air transport
undertaking obtained under the provisions of section 36 of this Act, shall not,
without the prior consent in writing of the person carrying on the undertaking
which is the subject of the estimate, return, or information, be disclosed.
(3)  Any person who discloses any estimate, returns or any information in
contravention of subsection (1), commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a
fine of at least N100,000 or imprisonment for a term of at least one month or both.
Power to
request for
information.
Act No. 4,
2011.
Restriction
on
disclosure
and use of
information.

## Page 30

A 930           2022 No. 30 Civil Aviation Act, 2022
38. Whoever willfully, maliciously, or with reckless disregard for the safety
of human life, imparts, provides or causes to be provided, false information,
knowing the information to be false, concerning an attempt or alleged attempt
being made or to be made, to do any act that is prohibited by section 37 of this
Act, commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of at least N200,000,
or imprisonment for a term not more than six months or both.
39.—(1) The Authority shall develop regulations with respect to the use
of the navigable airspace of Nigeria and may assign by rule, regulation, or
order the use of the navigable airspace under such terms, conditions and
limitations as the Authority may deem necessary to insure the safety of aircraft
and the efficient utilisation of such airspace.
(2) The Authority’s power under this section shall be exercised only in
that airspace for which air traffic control responsibility has not been assigned
to a foreign country by international agreement or other arrangement.
40.—(1) The Authority shall have the power to regulate the standards
for the provision of air navigation service and prescribe air traffic regulations,
rules or conditions governing the—
(a) flight of aircraft ;
(b) navigation, protection and identification of aircraft ;
(c) protection of persons and property on the ground ; and
(d) efficient utilisation of the navigable airspace, including rules as to
safe altitude of flight and rules for the prevention of collision between aircraft,
between aircraft and land or water, vehicles and objects, and between
aircraft and airborne objects.
(2)  Notwithstanding the provision of subsection (1) and without prejudice
to the provisions of section 31 of this Act, the Authority shall have power to —
(a) institute and regulate the use of civil air ensign and other ensign
established for purposes connected with air navigation in Nigeria ;
(b) regulate the activities of air navigation service providers in accordance
with ICAO standards and recommended practices ;
(c) regulate and participate in aeronautical search and rescue
operations ;
(d) regulate the standards for the provision of aeronautical meteorological
services for the safe conduct of civil aviation operations ;
(e) regulate as to the circumstances and conditions under which it would
be permissible to use aircraft for aerial advertisement and for regulating
advertisements by air transport, aerodrome and air traffic control service
providers ;
False
information.
Regulation
of
airspace.

## Page 31

2022  No. 30           A 931Civil Aviation Act, 2022
(f ) require persons engaged in, or employed in or in connection with, air
navigation to supply meteorological information for the purposes of air
navigation ;
(g) regulate the making of signals and any other communication by or to
aircraft and persons carried in aircraft ; and
(h) regulate the aeronautical radio frequency spectrum utilisation in
Nigeria.
(3) The Authority’s power under this section shall be exercised only in
that air space for which air traffic control responsibility has not been assigned
to a foreign country by international agreement or other arrangement.
(4)  In exercising the power granted in, and discharging the duties imposed
by this Act, the Authority shall give full consideration to the requirements of
national security, commercial and general aviation and to the public right of
transit through the navigable airspace.
41.—(1) The Authority may grant exemptions from any of the
requirements set forth in the regulations made under this Act, where the
Authority considers that granting such exemptions will not compromise safety
and security and is in the public interest.
(2) The Authority shall issue regulations, directives or orders governing
the application for and approval of exemptions.
(3) The Authority shall publish any exemption actions taken.
(4) Except as provided in subsections (1), (2) and (3) or any regulations
made under this Act, the Authority may not grant exemptions from the
requirements of the regulations made under this Act.
42.—(1) The Authority shall have the power to regulate the standards—
(a) for the provision of civil aviation security in Nigeria ;
(b) regarding security control and screening to which passengers and
baggage, whether accompanied or unaccompanied, would be subjected to
prior to boarding or being laid on an aircraft ;
(c) requiring all passengers and property intended to be carried on board
an aircraft in commercial air transport to be subjected to security checks
by employees or agents of the operator or any other relevant Authority ;
(d) for the implementation of advance passenger information and
passenger name record data exchange between departure and destination
countries and for the protection of passenger information ;
(e) for such practices, methods and  procedures as the  Authority may
find necessary to  protect any person and property aboard aircraft operating
Grant of
exemptions.
Aviation
security.

## Page 32

A 932           2022 No. 30 Civil Aviation Act, 2022
in commercial air transport against any act of unlawful interference, violence
and aircraft piracy ; and
(f ) for the deployment of any person onboard aircraft under a bilateral
or multilateral treaty, arrangement or agreement for the purpose of securing
the aircraft in-flight and any person onboard the aircraft.
(2)  The Authority shall to the extent practicable and subject to any other
relevant law, require uniform procedures for the inspection, detention, and
search of persons and property in air transport to assure their safety and to
assure that they will receive courteous and efficient treatment by air operators,
their agents and employees.
(3) The Authority shall —
(a) develop aviation security policies and requirements consistent with
the provisions of Annex 17 to the Chicago Convention ;
(b) issue orders, circulars or directives to require the implementation of
immediate security measures ; and
(c) provide oversight for the implementation of aviation security policies
and requirements.
43.—(1) An airline operator shall not operate air transport service to,
from and within Nigeria unless he has a security programme approved by the
Authority.
(2) It shall be the duty of the airline operator, its representatives and
servants to comply with the provisions of the approved security programme.
(3) Every breach of the provisions of the approved airline security
programme shall attract a fine of at least N500,000 or as stipulated by the
relevant regulation whichever is higher.
44. The Authority or any other person authorised by it by general or
special order in writing in its behalf may conduct —
(a) surveys and inspections of security measures relating to passengers
and their cabin baggage, checked in baggage, cargo and other goods, access
controls and aerodrome design ;
(b) surveys, audits, tests, and inspections on aerodromes, airlines and
allied aviation services operating in Nigeria ; and
(c) exercises to check the professional efficiency of the personnel
responsible for implementing the aviation security procedures and also to
test the adequacy of security measures at any aerodrome in Nigeria.
Requirement
for approval
of airline
security
programme.
Security
surveys,
audits,
tests and
inspections.

## Page 33

2022  No. 30           A 933Civil Aviation Act, 2022
45.—(1) Every person entering an aerodrome and before proceeding
for boarding an aircraft and his hand baggage, if any, shall be subjected to a
search and shall permit to be searched by an aviation security officer or any
other person authorised in that behalf in writing by the Minister.
(2) Baggage of every person boarding an aircraft and all unaccompanied
baggage shall be screened or subjected to prescribe security control before it
is placed on board or carried on an aircraft.
(3) Every person who refuses to submit himself or his baggage for
a search commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of at
least N500,000.
46.—(1) The Authority shall promulgate rules and regulations governing
the notification and reporting of incidents involving aircraft and at aerodromes.
(2) The Authority shall have power to carry out investigations into any
complaint or occurrence relating to aviation safety and security, after due
notice to the persons concerned.
(3)  Where the Authority is satisfied after such investigation that
such person is violating any provisions of this Act, regulations, rules, orders
or directives, as the case may be, it shall by order require the person to
take such action consistent with the provision of this Act, regulations, rules,
orders or directives as may be necessary in the opinion of the Authority to
prevent further violation of the provisions of this Act, regulations, rules,
orders or directives.
(4)  The Authority shall have power to take all steps reasonably necessary,
including the power to ground any aircraft and to seal the premises of any air
transport service provider or provider of allied aviation service and to take
any corrective actions in order to implement the findings of accidents and
incidents investigations and ensure compliance with the provisions of this Act
and the regulations, rules, orders or directives made under it.
(5)  The Authority shall implement mandatory punitive and voluntary
non-punitive incident and accident reporting system and shall protect the identity
of any person or organisation who offer information towards the performance
of its functions under this Act and regulations made under it.
47.  The Authority may in the discharge of certification and inspection
responsibilities, validate or accept the actions of the Civil Aviation Authority of
another State in lieu of taking the specific action subject to the following
restrictions for actions—
(a) on airman or airworthiness certificates and the other State shall
be a signatory to the Chicago Convention and be fulfilling its obligations
under the Convention with respect to the issuance and currency of these
certificates ; and
Security
checks of
passenger
and baggage.
Incident
reporting,
investigation
and
enforcement.
Validation of
actions of
the Civil
Aviation
Authority of
other States.

## Page 34

A 934           2022 No. 30 Civil Aviation Act, 2022
(b) applicable to air operators and the Authority shall exercise discretion
and require supporting documents and ensure that, when validation is based
on the actions of another civil aviation authority, there is no information to
indicate that the State does not meet its obligations under the Chicago
Convention regarding certification and on-going validation of its air operators.
48.—(1) The Authority shall have free, unrestricted, unobstructed and
unlimited access to all civil aviation personnel, documents, aircraft, aerodrome,
aviation facilities, to inspect aircraft, aircraft manufacturers and maintenance
facilities or organisations, training facilities including simulators, and other
appliances designed for use in air transportation, as may be necessary to
enable the Authority to determine the issuance or granting of a certificate of
registration or approval to such aircraft, aerodrome, aircraft manufacturer
and maintenance facility or organisation and other applicable appliances, and
for the purpose of exercising its powers and carrying out its functions under
this Act and regulations made under it.
(2) The Authority shall have free, unrestricted, unhindered, unobstructed
and unlimited access to enter any aircraft registered or operating in Nigeria
for the purpose of inspecting any security procedure.
(3)  The Authority shall have free, unrestricted, unhindered, unobstructed
and unlimited access to require an aircraft operator, aerodrome operator or
occupier of land outside an aerodrome used for business purposes connected
with the aerodrome to provide information relevant to any audit, inspection,
survey, test or investigation.
(4)  The Authority shall have free, unrestricted, unhindered, unobstructed
and unlimited access to relevant security documentation and records connected
with air transportation and to interview any person for the purpose of assessing
the standard of security or the implementation of security procedures.
49.—(1) The Authority shall have the power to direct an operator or
airman of a civil aircraft not to operate in any situation where the—
(a) aircraft may not be airworthy ;
(b) airman may not be qualified or physically or mentally capable for the
flight ; or
(c) operation would cause imminent danger to any person or property on
the ground.
(2) The Authority may take such steps as is necessary to detain such
aircraft or airman.
Right of
access for
inspection.
Authority
to prevent
flight.

## Page 35

2022  No. 30           A 935Civil Aviation Act, 2022
PART VIII—INTERNA TIONAL OBLIGA TIONS
50.—(1) The provisions of the Convention on the International
Recognition of Rights in Aircraft (Geneva Convention), 1948, shall from the
commencement of this Act have the force of law in Nigeria subject to the
provisions of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999.
(2)  The provisions of the Convention on International Interests in Mobile
Equipment 2001 and the Protocol to the Convention on International Interests
in Mobile Equipment on Matters Specific to Aircraft Equipment 2001 (The
Cape Town Convention and Protocol), shall from the commencement of this
Act, have the force of law in Nigeria subject to the provisions of the Constitution
of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999.
(3) The provisions of the Convention on Offences and Certain Other
Acts Committed On Board Aircraft signed at Tokyo on 14th September, 1963
and any amendment thereto shall from the commencement of this Act have
the force of law in Nigeria subject to the provisions of the Constitution of the
Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999.
(4) The provisions of the Convention for the Suppression of Unlawful
Seizure of Aircraft, signed at the Hague on 16th December, 1970, shall from
the commencement of this Act, have the force of law in Nigeria subject to the
provisions of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999.
(5) The provisions of the Convention for the Suppression of Unlawful
Acts Against the Safety of Civil Aviation, signed at Montreal on 23rd December,
1971, shall from the commencement of this Act have the force of law in
Nigeria, subject to the provisions of the Constitution of the Federal Republic
of Nigeria, 1999.
(6)  The Convention on the Marking of Plastic Explosives for the Purpose
of Detection, signed at Montreal on 1st March, 1991, shall from the
commencement of this Act have force of law in Nigeria, subject to the
provisions of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999.
(7)  The Minister shall have power to make the declarations required or
permitted to be made under the Conventions, Treaties or Protocols referred to
under subsections (1)-(6).
51.—(1)  All funds accruing from or as a result of air services agreements
entered into by Nigeria, whether multilateral or bilateral, shall be paid to the
Authority and maintained in a separate account to be used solely for the
development of civil aviation in Nigeria in accordance with directives given by
the Minister and appropriation by the National Assembly.
Application
of certain
conventions.
Cap. C23,
LFN, 2004
Application
of air
services
agreement
and security
funds.

## Page 36

A 936           2022 No. 30 Civil Aviation Act, 2022
(2) There shall be paid on each passenger ticket for international air
travel emanating from Nigeria a security surcharge as may be determined by
the Authority.
(3)  All funds accruing as a result of security surcharge from international
flight tickets shall be paid to the Authority and maintained in a separate account
to be used solely for the improvement of aviation security in Nigeria, in
accordance with directions given by the Minister and appropriation by the
National Assembly.
52.  In exercising and performing powers and duties under this Act, the
Authority shall act consistently with any obligation assumed by the Government
of Nigeria under any international treaty, convention and agreement that may
be in force between the Government of Nigeria and any foreign country.
53.—(1) The Authority shall encourage cooperation in the regulation
and administration of aviation safety and security.
(2) The Authority, under subsection (1)—
(a) may enter into any agreement for cooperative endeavours in aviation
safety and security with other regional contracting States to the Convention
on International Aviation ; and
(b) shall in conjunction with the Minister, negotiate, agree to and manage
such cooperative agreements.
(3) The Authority may in the interest of public safety and the safety of
civil aviation, delegate certain aviation safety tasks under the cooperative
agreement to citizens of Nigeria or citizens of the other State party to the
agreement.
(4)  The Authority may, subject to the approval of the Minister, cause to
be implemented a surcharge on ticket sales by international passengers for
the purposes of meeting any obligation arising from cooperative safety and
security arrangements.
54.—(1) The Authority may under article 83 bis of the Convention on
International Civil Aviation and by a bilateral agreement with the Aeronautical
Authority of another country exchange with that country all or part of its respective
functions and duties with respect to registered aircraft under article 12 (Rules of
the Air), article 30 (Aircraft Radio Equipment), article 31 (Certificates of
Airworthiness) and article 32 (a) (Licenses of Personnel) of the Convention.
(2) The Authority may relinquish its responsibility with respect to the
functions and duties transferred by the Authority as specified in the bilateral
agreement under the articles listed in subsection (1) for Nigerian registered
Authority to
act in
consistency
with
international
obligations.
Authority to
enter into
cooperation
agreements.
Bilateral
exchange of
safety
oversight
responsibilities.

## Page 37

2022  No. 30           A 937Civil Aviation Act, 2022
aircraft described in subsection (7) (a) transferred abroad and accept
responsibility with respect to the functions and duties under the articles
for aircraft registered abroad described in subsection (7) (b) that is
transferred to Nigeria.
(3)  The Authority may predicate in the agreement, the transfer of
functions and duties under this subsection on any condition that the Authority
deems necessary and prudent, except that the Authority may not transfer
responsibilities for Nigerian registered aircraft described in subsection (7) (a)
to a State that the Authority determines is not in compliance with its obligations
under international law for the safety oversight of civil aviation.
(4) The Authority, pursuant to any agreement entered into under this
section, may recognise certificates of airworthiness and personnel licences
issued or renewed by the State of the operator.
(5)  The Authority shall notify and inform the International Civil Aviation
Organisation and other States concerned with the transfer arrangement of the
existence of the agreement.
(6) The Authority shall have the power to exchange with any foreign
government, through appropriate agencies of the Government of Nigeria,
information pertaining to civil aviation.
(7) In this section “registered aircraft” means—
(a) aircraft registered in Nigeria and operated under an agreement for
the lease, charter, or interchange of the aircraft or any similar arrangement
by an operator that has its principal place of business or, where it has no
such place of business, its permanent  residence in another country ; and
(b) aircraft registered in a foreign country and operated under an
agreement for the lease, charter, or interchange of the aircraft or any similar
arrangement by an operator that has its principal place of business or, where
it has no such place of business, its permanent residence in Nigeria.
55.—(1) The provisions contained in the Convention for the Unification
of Certain Rules Relating to International Carriage by Air signed at Montreal
on 28th May, 1999 set forth in the Second Schedule to this Act and shall, from
the commencement of this Act have force of law and apply to international
carriage by air to and from Nigeria, in relation to any carriage by air to which
the rules apply, irrespective of the nationality of the aircraft performing the
carriage, and shall, subject to the provisions of this Act, govern the rights and
liabilities of carriers, passengers, consignors, consignees and other persons.
(2) The provisions contained in the Convention for the Unification of
Certain Rules Relating to International Carriage by Air signed at Montreal on
28th May,1999 which has been modified and set out in the Second Schedule to
Carriers’
liability.
Second
Schedule.
Second
Schedule.

## Page 38

A 938           2022 No. 30 Civil Aviation Act, 2022
this Act and shall, from the commencement of this Act have the force of law
and apply to non-international carriage by air within Nigeria, irrespective of
the nationality of the aircraft performing the carriage, and shall subject to the
provisions of this Act govern the rights and liability of carriers, passengers,
consignors, consignees and other persons within the contemplation of the
modified Convention.
(3) In any case of aircraft accident resulting in death or injury of
passengers, the airline operator or carrier shall make advance payments of
Naira equivalent of at least 30,000 United States Dollars within  30 days from
the date of such accident, to the natural person or such natural persons who
are entitled to claim compensation in order to meet the immediate economic
needs of such persons and such advance payments shall not constitute
recognition of liability and may be offset against any amount subsequently
paid as damages by the carrier.
(4)  The advance payment sum prescribed in subsection (3) and the limit
of liability under the Convention for the Unification of Certain Rules Relating to
International Carriage by Air as modified by subsection (2) shall stand reviewed
automatically upon receipt by Nigeria of a notification of the five yearly review
of the limits from the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO).
56.—(1) It shall be the responsibility of any person or aircraft to provide
such measure of assistance to aircraft in distress within the territory of Nigeria
as may be found practicable.
(2) The Minister may permit the owner of an aircraft in distress or the
authorities of the State in which the aircraft is registered, subject to control by
Nigerian authorities, to provide such service or assistance as may be necessary.
(3) When undertaking search for missing aircraft, the authorities in Nigeria
will collaborate in coordinated measures, as may be recommended under the
Chicago Convention.
(4) Where salvage services are rendered by an aircraft to any property or
person, the owner of the aircraft shall be entitled to the same reward for the
services as he would have been entitled to if the aircraft had been a vessel.
(5) The provisions of subsections (1) and (2) shall have effect,
notwithstanding that the aircraft concerned is a foreign aircraft and that the
services in question is rendered elsewhere than within the limits of the territorial
waters of Nigeria.
(6) The provisions of subsections (3) and (4) shall have effect,
notwithstanding that the aircraft concerned is a foreign aircraft and that the
service in question is rendered elsewhere than within the limits of the territorial
waters of Nigeria.
Application
to aircraft of
law of wreck
and salvage.

## Page 39

2022  No. 30           A 939Civil Aviation Act, 2022
(7) The Minister may by regulations direct that any provisions of any
law for the time being in force in Nigeria which relate to wreck and salvage of
life or property or to the duty of rendering assistance to vessels in distress
shall, with such modifications and exceptions, if any, as may be prescribed,
apply in relation to aircraft as those provisions apply in relation to vessels.
(8)  For the purpose of this section, any provision of any law in force in
Nigeria, which relate to vessels laid by, or neglected as unfit for sea service
shall be deemed to be provisions relating to wreck.
57.—(1) Any lawful entry into Nigeria or any lawful transit across Nigeria,
with or without landings, of an aircraft to which this subsection applies, shall
not entail any seizure or detention of the aircraft or any proceedings against
the owner or operator of the aircraft or any other interference with the aircraft
by or on behalf of any person in Nigeria on the ground that the construction,
mechanism, parts, accessories, or operation of the aircraft is an infringement
of any patent, design or model.
(2) The importation into and storage in Nigeria of spare parts and spare
equipment for an aircraft to which this subsection applies and the use and
installation of it in repair  of such an aircraft, shall not entail any seizure or
detention of the aircraft or of the spare parts or spare equipment or any
proceedings against the owner or operator of the aircraft or the owner of the
spare parts or spare equipment or any other interference with the aircraft by
or on behalf of any person in Nigeria, on the ground that the spare parts or
spare equipment or their installation  is an infringement of any patent, design
or model, provided that, this subsection shall not apply in relation to any spare
parts or spare equipment which is sold or distributed in Nigeria or is exported
from Nigeria for sale or distribution.
(3) Subsections (1) and (2) shall apply to—
(a) any aircraft other than an aircraft used in military, customs or police
services registered in a country or territory in the case of which there is for
the time being in force a declaration made by the Minister, with a view to
the fulfillment of the relevant provisions of the Convention mentioned in
section 55 (2) of this Act, that the benefits of the subsections extend to that
country or territory ; and
(b) such other aircraft as the Minister may by order specify.
58.—(1) Where it is alleged by any interested person that a foreign
aircraft which is not an aircraft to which section 57 of this Act applies and
which is making a passage through or over Nigeria, infringes in itself or part
of any invention, design or model which is entitled to protection in Nigeria, it
shall be lawful, subject to and in accordance with any order made by the
Patent
claims.
Infringement
of patent.

## Page 40

A 940           2022 No. 30 Civil Aviation Act, 2022
Minister, to detain the aircraft until the owner of it deposits or secures in
respect of the alleged infringement a sum (in this section referred to as “the
deposited sum”), and the aircraft shall not, during the continuance of the
passage, be subject to any lien, arrest, detention or prohibition,  whether  by
order  of  a court  or  otherwise,  on  account  of  the  alleged infringement.
(2) The deposited sum shall be such sum as may be agreed between the
parties interested or, in default of agreement, as may be fixed by the Minister,
and the payment of the deposited sum shall be made or secured to the Minister
in such manner as may be specified by orders made by the Minister.
(3) The deposited sum shall be dealt with by such tribunal and in
accordance with such procedure as may be prescribed by orders made by the
Minister, and the orders may provide generally for carrying the provisions of
subsections (1) and (2) into effect.
(4) For the purposes of subsection (1), the expression “owner” shall
include the actual owner of an aircraft and any person claiming through or
under him, and the expression “passage” shall include all reasonable landings
and stoppages in the course of the passage.
PART IX—NATIONALITY AND REGISTRA TION OF AIRCRAFT
59.—(1) The Authority shall have power to regulate and by regulations
make provisions for the registration of civil aircraft or any interest therein in
Nigeria.
(2)  The Authority shall establish a national registry and maintain a national
register of civil aircraft in Nigeria.
(3) It shall be unlawful to operate a civil aircraft in Nigeria unless it is
registered in Nigeria or under the laws of a foreign country.
(4)  An aircraft shall be eligible for registration only if it is not registered
in a foreign country and, unless otherwise permitted by the Authority by
regulation or it is owned by—
(a) a citizen of Nigeria ;
(b) a citizen of another State who is lawfully admitted for permanent
residence in Nigeria ;
(c) a company lawfully registered and doing business under the laws of
Nigeria and the aircraft is based and primarily used in Nigeria ;
(d) the Government of Nigeria or a political sub-division of it ; or
(e) a foreign person who has leased the aircraft to one of those described
in paragraphs (a), (c) and (d).
Aircraft
registration.

## Page 41

2022  No. 30           A 941Civil Aviation Act, 2022
(5) Upon request of the owner or lessee of any aircraft eligible for
registration, such aircraft shall be registered by the Authority and the Director-
General shall issue to the owner a certificate of registration.
(6) Applications for such certificates shall be in such form and shall
contain such information as the Authority may prescribe.
(7)  Any certificate issued by the Director-General may be suspended or
revoked for any cause if the Director-General finds such suspension or
revocation to be in the public interest.
(8) An aircraft shall acquire Nigerian nationality when registered under
this Act.
(9) A certificate of registration issued under this section shall not be
conclusive evidence as to ownership in any proceeding under the laws of
Nigeria in which ownership of the aircraft by a particular person is or may be
in issue.
60.—(1) The Authority shall cause to be recorded in the national civil
aircraft register any title to or any interest in any civil aircraft registered in
Nigeria and in any aircraft engine, propeller or appliance intended for use on
any aircraft registered in Nigeria.
(2)  Upon registration of any title to or interest in any civil aircraft
registered in Nigeria no document affecting title to or any interest in such
registered aircraft, aircraft engines, propellers, appliances, or spare parts shall
be valid, except between the parties to it, unless it is contained in the register.
(3)  The validity of any document so recorded, unless otherwise specified
by the parties to it, shall be determined under the laws of Nigeria.
PART X—SAFETY REGULA TION
61.  The Authority shall have the power and duty to promote safety of
civil aviation by prescribing and revising as necessary—
(a) rules and regulations implementing, all Standards of the Annexes to
the Chicago Convention ; and
(b) such other rules, regulations, or standards governing other practices,
methods, and procedures as the Authority may find necessary to provide
adequately for safety in civil aviation.
62.—(1) The Authority shall establish a State Safety Programme in
order to achieve an acceptable level of safety in civil aviation.
(2)  As part of the State Safety Programme, the Authority shall require
that operators and service providers implement a Safety Management System.
Recordation
of interest in
aircraft
Duty to
promote
safety of
civil
aviation.
Establishment
of State
Safety
Programme.

## Page 42

A 942           2022 No. 30 Civil Aviation Act, 2022
63.—(1) The Authority shall have the power to—
(a) establish a personnel licensing system to licence aircraft maintenance
personnel, flight crew, air traffic controllers, flight operations officers and
such other persons engaged in the use or operation of aircraft, aircraft facilities,
aerodromes and other activities related, incidental or supplementary to it, in
accordance with the provisions of this Act, regulations and the licensing
requirements specified in Annex 1 of the Chicago Convention ; and
(b) issue airman licences or certificates specifying the capacity in which
the holder of it is authorised to serve as airman in connection with aircraft.
(2) The licence or certificate shall contain such terms, conditions, and
tests of physical and mental fitness, and other matters as the Authority may
determine to be necessary to assure safety in civil aviation.
(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1) (b), the Authority
may prohibit or restrict, in such manner as the Authority shall deem appropriate,
the issuance of airman licences or certificates to citizens of foreign countries.
64.—(1) The Authority shall have the power to regulate and make
regulations regarding the design, construction, modification and maintenance
of aircraft and all other matters connected with it.
(2) The owner, operator or agent of any aircraft registered in Nigeria
may file with the Authority an application for an airworthiness certificate for
such aircraft.
(3)   Where the Authority finds that the aircraft conforms to the appropriate
type certificate and, after inspection, finds that the aircraft is in condition for
safe operation, the Authority shall issue an airworthiness certificate.
65.—(1) It shall be the duty of the Authority to issue air operator
certificate (AOC) and all other certificates relating to the safety of air transport
undertakings.
(2)  The Authority shall by regulations, orders or directives prescribe the
minimum safety standards and all other relevant requirements for the grant,
issuance, operation, variation, and renewal of such certificates.
(3)  The Authority shall by regulation, issue operation specifications that
define the approved terms, conditions and limitations of such operations.
(4) The Authority shall by regulation prescribe conditions for the
revocation, suspension or other limitation of air operator certificate.
Airman
licences or
certificates.
Airworthiness
certificates.
Air operator
certificate.

## Page 43

2022  No. 30           A 943Civil Aviation Act, 2022
66. The Authority shall have and exercise the powers generally to—
(a) set training standards for and approve air transport training institutions
in Nigeria ;
(b) provide for the examination and rating of —
(i) training organisations giving instruction in flying, air traffic control,
flight dispatch, cabin safety, aerodrome standards and air navigation
standards related areas or in the repair, alteration, maintenance,  and
overhaul of aircraft, aircraft engines, propellers, and appliances, as to
the adequacy of the course of instruction, the suitability and airworthiness
of the equipment, and the competency of the instructors, and
(ii) approved maintenance organisations for the repair, alteration,
maintenance, and overhaul of aircraft, aircraft engines, propellers, and
appliances, as to the adequacy and suitability of the equipment, facilities,
and materials for, and methods of, repair and overhaul, and the competency
of those engaged in the work or giving any instruction therein ; and
(c) issue certificates for such training organisations and approved
maintenance organisations.
67. The Authority shall have the power to—
(a) regulate the activities of air navigation service providers in accordance
with ICAO standards and recommended practices and national laws ;
(b) certify or grant licences in respect of onboard aircraft apparatus,
aerodromes and certify airways, navigational approaches and landing aids
in Nigeria to ensure safety of air navigation ;
(c) make regulations for minimising or preventing aeronautical radio
frequency interference with the use or effectiveness of aeronautical radio
apparatus in connection with air navigation, and for prohibiting or regulating
the use of such apparatus and the display of signs and lights liable to endanger
aircraft ; and
(d) prescribe and revise safety standards for the operation of air
navigation facilities located in Nigeria.
68.—(1) It shall be the duty and primary responsibility of an air operator
certificate holder to ensure the safe operation of his aircraft.
(2) It shall be the duty of each operator to make or cause to be made,
such inspection, maintenance, overhaul, and repair of all equipment used in
civil aviation and to ensure that the operations conducted are in accordance
with this Act and the regulations, directives and orders of the Director-General
issued under this Act.
Approved
training and
maintenance
organisations.
Air
navigation
facility
safety
standards.
Duty of
operators
and airmen.

## Page 44

A 944           2022 No. 30 Civil Aviation Act, 2022
(3) It shall be the duty of each holder of an air operator certificate to
ensure that the maintenance of aircraft and operations of that air operator are
conducted in the public interest and in accordance with the requirements of
this Act and the regulations, directives, orders and advisory circulars issued
under this Act by the Director-General.
(4) It shall be the duty of each holder of an airman certificate to observe
and comply with the authority and limitations of that certificate, the requirements
of this Act and the regulations, directives and orders issued under this Act.
(5) It shall be the duty of every person performing duties in civil aviation
to observe and comply with the requirements of this Act and the orders, rules,
and directives issued under this Act relating to his tasks.
69.—(1) The Authority shall have the power to regulate and may by
regulations make such provisions as expedient as to the conditions under which
passengers and goods may be carried by air and under which aircraft may be
used for other gainful purposes, and for prohibiting the carriage by air of
goods of such class or classes as may be prescribed.
(2) The Authority shall specify, monitor and supervise the conditions
under which an aircraft may carry passengers, mail and cargo or be used for
other purposes, and prohibit an aircraft from the carriage of such classes of
goods as the Authority may prescribe.
(3) The Authority shall monitor and enforce compliance with the provisions
of this Act, regulations, orders, rules and directives made under it, for the safe
transport of dangerous goods by air, and is authorised to submit variations to
the ICAO Technical Instructions on behalf of Nigeria where necessary.
(4) It shall be the duty of every person who offers or accepts, shipments,
cargo or baggage for commercial air transport, whether originating or arriving
in international flights to or from Nigeria, or for flights within Nigeria, to offer
or accept such shipments, cargo, or baggage in accordance with the provisions
of this Act, rules, regulations, orders or directives made or given under it for
the safe transport of dangerous goods by air.
70.—(1) The Authority shall have the power and duty to—
(a) carry out such inspections of aircraft, aircraft engines, propellers,
and appliances used by any operator of civil aircraft as may be necessary
to determine that the operator is maintaining it in safe condition for the
operation in which it is used ; and
(b) advise each operator in the inspection and maintenance of these
items.
Transportation
of dangerous
goods by air.
Authority
to inspect
aircraft.

## Page 45

2022  No. 30           A 945Civil Aviation Act, 2022
(2) Where the Authority finds that any aircraft, aircraft engine, propeller
or appliance, used or intended to be used by any operator in civil aviation, is
not in a condition for safe operation, the Authority shall so notify the operator,
and the aircraft, aircraft engine, propeller, or appliance shall not be used in
civil aviation or in such manner as to endanger civil aviation, unless and until
found by the Authority to be in a condition for safe operation.
PART XI—PROVISION OF AERODROMES AND CONTROL OF LAND
FOR AVIA TION PURPOSES
71.—(1) The Minister may approve the establishment and development
of aerodromes anywhere in Nigeria.
(2) Roads, approaches, apparatus, equipment, buildings and other
accommodations in connection to such aerodromes shall be maintained by the
owners in conformity with rules and regulations made under this Act.
(3)  A person shall not commence construction or reconstruction of an
aerodrome in Nigeria without clearance from the Authority.
(4)  The Authority shall have the power to—
(a) certify and grant permits in respect of aerodromes and to establish
minimum safety standards for the design, operation and maintenance of
aerodromes ; and
(b) regulate and make regulations—
(i) for the certification, inspection and regulation of aerodromes, access
to aerodromes and places where aircraft have landed, for the inspection
of aircraft factories, and for prohibiting or regulating the use of
aerodromes which are not certified in pursuance to the regulations,
(ii) as to the conditions under which, and in particular the aerodromes
to or from which, aircraft entering or leaving Nigeria may fly, and as to the
conditions, under which aircraft may fly from one part of Nigeria to another,
(iii) as to the conditions under which noise and vibration may be caused
by aircraft on aerodromes provided that no action shall lie in respect of
nuisance by reason only of the noise and vibration caused by  aircraft on
an aerodrome so long as the provisions of the regulations in force as
respects aerodromes are complied with, and
(iv) for applying the laws relating to customs in relation to aerodromes
and to aircraft and to persons and property carried in aircraft.
(5)  The Authority in exercising its functions in relation to the certification
of aerodromes shall have regard to the need to minimise so far as practicable
any adverse effect the presence of such aerodrome may have on the
environment.
Establishment
of
aerodromes.

## Page 46

A 946           2022 No. 30 Civil Aviation Act, 2022
72. A certificate for an aerodrome shall not be granted to any person
other than—
(a) a citizen of Nigeria ;
(b) the Federal Government, a State Government, a Local Government
or any  company or corporation owned or controlled by any of the said
Governments ; or
(c) a company or a corporation registered in Nigeria and having its
principal place of business in Nigeria.
73. Without prejudice to any power of an aerodrome operator to enter
into an agreement on such terms as he or it thinks fit, an aerodrome operator
may with the approval of the Minister and for the purpose of encouraging the
use of quieter aircraft and of diminishing inconvenience from aircraft noise,
fix his or its charges by reference, among other things, to any fact or matter
relating to—
(a) the amount of noise, vibration or emission caused by the aircraft in
respect of which the charges are made ; or
(b) the extent or nature of any inconvenience resulting from such noise,
vibration or emission.
74.—(1) Where the Authority is satisfied, with respect to any building or
structure in the vicinity of an aerodrome to which this section applies, that in
order to avoid danger to aircraft flying in that vicinity in darkness or conditions
of poor visibility, provision ought to be made (whether by lighting or otherwise)
for giving to such aircraft warning of the presence of that building or structure,
it may by order direct subject to any conditions specified in the order the
operator  of the aerodrome and  any  person acting under the operator’s
instructions—
(a) to execute, install, maintain, operate, and as occasion requires repair
and alter, such works and apparatus as may be necessary for enabling
such warning to be given in the manner specified in the order; and
(b) so far as may be necessary for exercising any of the powers conferred
by the order, enter upon and pass over (with or without vehicles) any such
land as may be specified in the order.
(2)  The order referred to under subsection (1) shall be made in relation
to any building or structure if it appears to the Authority that there have been
made, and are being carried out, satisfactory arrangements for the giving of
such warning.
(3) The Authority shall, before making any such order cause to be
published, in such manner as it thinks best for informing persons concerned,
notice of the proposal to make the order and of the place where copies of the
Eligibility
for an
aerodrome
certificate.
Charges for
using
certified
aerodromes.
Obstructions
near
aerodrome.

## Page 47

2022  No. 30           A 947Civil Aviation Act, 2022
draft order may be obtained free of charge, and take into consideration, any
representations with respect to the order which may within such period not
being less than 14 days after the publication of the notice as may be specified
therein, be made to it by any person appearing to it to have an interest in any
land which would be affected by the order, and at the end of that period the
order may, subject to the provisions of this section, be made with such
modifications (if any) of the original draft as the Authority thinks proper.
(4) Every order made under subsection (1) shall provide that —
(a) except in a case of emergency, no works shall be executed on any
land under the order unless, at least 14 days previously, the operator of the
aerodrome to which the order relates has served in the manner specified
by the order on the occupier of that land, and on every other person known
by the operator to have an interest in the land, a written notice containing
such particulars of the nature of the proposed works, and the manner in
which and the time at which it is proposed to execute them, as may be
specified by the order ;
(b) if within 14 days from the service of the said notice on any person
having such an interest, the operator of the aerodrome receives written
objection on the part of that person to the proposals contained in the notice,
then, except in so far as the objection is withdrawn, no steps shall be taken
under the notice without the specific authorisation of the Authority ; and
(c) the operator of the aerodrome to which the order relates shall pay to
any person having an interest in any land affected by the order adequate
compensation for any loss or damage which that person may suffer in
consequence of the order, and for the purpose of this subsection any expense
reasonably incurred in connection with the lawful removal of any apparatus
installed under such an order, and so much of any expense incurred in
connection with the repair, alteration, demolition or removal of any building,
structure or erection to which such an order relates as is attributable to the
operation of the order, shall be deemed to be loss or damage suffered in
consequence of the order.
(5)  The ownership of anything shall not be taken to be affected by
reason only that it is placed in, or affixed to, any land under such an order, and
subject to the provisions of subsection (6), so long as any such order in respect
of an aerodrome is in force, no person shall, except with the consent of the
operator of the aerodrome, willfully interfere with any works or things which,
to the knowledge of that person, are works or things executed or placed in, on
or over any land under the order.

## Page 48

A 948           2022 No. 30 Civil Aviation Act, 2022
(6)  Any person who contravenes the provision of subsection (4), commits
an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of at least N200,000 or
imprisonment for a term of at least six months or both, and any person who
willfully obstructs a person in the exercise of any of the powers conferred by
such an order commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of at
least N200,000 or imprisonment for a term of at least six months or both.
(7) Nothing in this section shall operate, in relation to any building or
structure, so as to restrict the doing of any work for the purpose of repairing,
altering, demolishing or removing the building or structure where —
(a) notice of the doing of the work is given as soon as may be practicable
to the operator of the aerodrome ; and
(b) the giving of warning of the presence of the building or structure in
the manner provided by any order under this section in force in relation to it
is not interrupted.
(8) In this section, the expression—
(a) “aerodrome” to which this section applies means—
(i) an aerodrome under the control of the Minister or of the Minister
of the Government of the Federation responsible for Defence, or
(ii) any premises which, in pursuance of regulations made under this
Act are for the time being certified as an aerodrome ; and
(b) “operator of the aerodrome” means—
(i) in the case of such an aerodrome as is mentioned in paragraph (a) (i),
the person in charge of the aerodrome, and
(ii) in any other case, the holder of the certificate issued in respect of the
aerodrome under this Act.
75.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), any person who trespasses on
any land forming part of an aerodrome, or upon which navigational aids or
any ancillary facility is situated commits an offence and is liable on
conviction to a fine of at least N500,000 or imprisonment for a term of at
least six months or both.
(2)  A person shall not be liable under this section, unless it is proved that
at the material time, notices warning trespassers of their liability under this
section were posted, so as to be readily seen and read by members of the
public, in such position on or near the boundary of the aerodrome or land upon
which any navigational aid or ancillary facility is situated as appear to the
court to be proper.
Trespass on
aerodromes.

## Page 49

2022  No. 30           A 949Civil Aviation Act, 2022
76.—(1) An aerodrome operator shall not permit his or its aerodrome to
be used for operation of air transport service unless he or it has the airport
security programme approved by the Authority.
(2)  The aerodrome operator, his or its representatives and servants shall
comply with the provisions of the approved security programme and every
breach of the provisions of the approved airport security programme shall
attract a fine of at least N500,000 or as stipulated by the relevant regulation
whichever is higher.
77.  A person shall not establish a solid waste disposal facility or site that
receives putrescible waste within 13 kilometers of the vicinity of an aerodrome
unless the Minister, on the advice of the Authority, determines that an exemption
from this requirement would have no adverse impact on aviation safety.
PART XII—CIVIL AND CRIMINAL PENALTIES
78.—(1) The Authority shall have power to impose civil penalties for
violation of any provisions of this Act or any rules, regulations, orders or
directives issued or made under this Act.
(2)  Such civil penalties shall be in accordance with any provisions with
respect to amount or scope provided for in this Act or in any extant, current or
future regulations, orders, or directives made under this Act or law empowering
the making of such regulations, orders or directives.
(3)  The Authority’s power to enforce compliance with penalties, orders
or directives under this section shall include power to—
(a) detain aircraft ;
(b) seal or close offices and or operations of violator ; and
(c) seize and exercise a lien over aircraft owned by the violator and or
other assets of the violator.
(4)  Any person who, with knowledge of the occurrence, or who can
be imputed to have such knowledge as a reasonable person exercising
reasonable care in the circumstances, offers or accepts dangerous goods
for commercial air transport in violation of such rules, regulations, orders
or directives made or given for the safe transport of dangerous goods by
air has violated the duty imposed by section 68 (4) of this Act, and is
subject to a civil penalty not more than N500,000 for each part of the
International Civil Aviation Organisation Technical Instruction for the Safe
Transport of Dangerous Goods by Air that is violated.
Requirement
for approval
of aerodrome
security
programme.
Limitation
on the
construction
of refuse
disposal
facility
or site.
Power to
impose civil
penalties.

## Page 50

A 950           2022 No. 30 Civil Aviation Act, 2022
79.—(1) An action shall not lie in respect of trespass or nuisance by
reason only of the flight of an aircraft over any property at a height above the
ground which, having regard to wind, weather and all the circumstances of
the case is reasonable, or the ordinary incidents of such flight, so long as the
flight over such property duly complies with any regulations in force made in
respect to it.
(2)  Where injury, loss or damage is caused to any person or environment,
property on land or water by an aircraft or an article, or a person in or falling
from an aircraft in-flight taking off or landing or where such injury, loss or
damage is caused to any person or environment or property on land or water
by an aircraft in-flight, then without prejudice to the law relating to contributory
negligence damages in respect of the injury, loss or damage shall be recoverable
without proof of negligence or intention or any other cause of action, as if the
injury, loss or damage had been caused by the willful act, neglect or default of
the owner or operator of the aircraft.
(3)  Where the injury, loss or damage is caused in circumstances in
which a legal liability exists in some person other than the owner or operator
to pay damages in respect of the injury, loss or damage, the owner or operator
shall be entitled to be indemnified by that other person against any claim in
respect of the said injury, loss or damage.
(4) Where any aircraft has been bonafide demised, let or hired out to
any person by the owner of it and no pilot, commander, navigator or operative
member of the crew of the aircraft is in the employment of the owner, this
section shall have effect as though references to the owner here were
substituted for references to the person to whom the aircraft has been so
demised, let or hired out.
(5) The liability of the owner or operator arising under subsection (2)
shall not exceed the Naira equivalent of the following limits based on the mass
of the aircraft —
(a) 375,000 United States Dollars for aircraft having a maximum mass
of 500 kilogrammes or less ;
(b) 750,000 United States Dollars for aircraft having a maximum mass
of more than 500 kilogrammes but exceeding 1,000 kilogrammes ;
(c) 1,500,000 United States Dollars for aircraft having a maximum mass
of more than 1,000 kilogrammes but not exceeding 2,700 kilogrammes ;
(d) 3,500,000 United States Dollars for aircraft having a maximum mass
of more than 2,700 kilogrammes but not exceeding 6,000 kilogrammes ;
(e) 9,000,000 United States Dollars for aircraft having a maximum mass
of more than 6,000 kilogrammes but not exceeding 12,000 kilogrammes ;
Actions in
trespass,
nuisance and
damage by
and  from
aircraft.

## Page 51

2022  No. 30           A 951Civil Aviation Act, 2022
(f ) 40,000,000 United States Dollars for aircraft having a maximum mass
of more than12,000 kilogrammes but not exceeding 25,000 kilogrammes ;
(g) 75,000,000 United States Dollars for aircraft having a maximum
mass of more than 25,000 kilogrammes but not exceeding 50,000
kilogrammes ;
(h) 150,000,000 United States Dollars for aircraft having a maximum
mass of more than 50,000 kilogrammes but not exceeding 200,000
kilogrammes ;
(i) 250,000,000 United States Dollars for aircraft having a maximum
mass of more than 200,000 kilogrammes but not exceeding 500,000
kilogrammes ; and
(j) 350,000,000 United States Dollars for aircraft having a maximum
mass of more than 500,000 kilogrammes.
(6) Where an event involves two or more aircraft operated by the same
owner or operator, any limit of liability with respect to both aircraft may be
called upon to resolve any injury and or damage.
(7)  The limits in this subsection shall only apply if the owner or operator
proves that the damage—
(a) was not due to its negligence or other wrongful act or omission or
that of its servants or agents ; or
(b)  was solely due to the negligence or other wrongful act or omission
of another person.
(8) Where two or more aircraft have been involved in an event causing
damage to which this Act applies, the owner or operator of those aircraft shall
be jointly and severally liable for any damage suffered by a third party.
(9) Where  two  or more  owners  or operators are  so  liable,  the
recourse  between them shall  depend  on their respective contribution to the
damage.
(10) In case of injury, loss or damage arising from the provision of
subsection (2), the owners or operators shall make advance payment of at
least the Naira equivalent of the sum of 50,000 United States Dollars  within
30 days to the persons who are entitled to claim compensation in order to
meet the immediate economic needs of such persons and such advance
payments shall not constitute a recognition of liability and may be offset against
any amounts subsequently paid as damages by the owner or operator.
(11)  Where the total amount of compensation for damages exceeds the
limits prescribed under subsection (5), additional compensation as may be
prescribed by the International Civil Aviation Organisation shall apply.

## Page 52

A 952           2022 No. 30 Civil Aviation Act, 2022
(12) The right to compensation for damages under this Act shall be
extinguished where an action is not brought within two years from the date of
the event which caused the damage.
80.  Every person who knowingly and willfully forges, counterfeits, alters,
or falsely makes any document authorised to be issued or required to be made
under this Act or regulations made under this Act, or knowingly uses or attempts
to use any such fraudulent document, and any person who knowingly and
willfully displays or causes to be displayed on any aircraft any marks that are
false or misleading as to the nationality or registration of the aircraft, commits
an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine not more than N1,000,000 or
imprisonment for a term not more than one year or both.
81.—(1) Where an aircraft is operated in such a manner as to cause
danger to any person or property in the aircraft, on land or water, the pilot or
any other person in charge of the aircraft and the owner or any person having
responsibility for safe navigation of the aircraft commits an offence and is
liable on conviction to a fine of at least N2,000,000 or imprisonment for a term
of at least two years or both.
(2) In any proceedings against the owner of an aircraft in respect of an
alleged offence under this section, it shall be a defence to prove that the act
alleged to constitute the offence was done without the fault, privity and consent
of the owner.
(3) In this section, owner in relation to an aircraft of an alleged offence
includes any person by whom the aircraft is hired at the time of the alleged
offence.
82.—(1) Any person who unlawfully and intentionally destroys or
damages air navigation and meteorological facilities or interferes with their
operation in such a manner as is likely to endanger the safety of aircraft in
flight commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of at least
N2,000,000 imprisonment for a term of at least one year or both.
(2)  Any person who attempts to commit or abets the commission of any
offence under subsection (1) is also deemed to have committed the offence
and is liable to the punishment provided for that offence.
(3) A person who—
(a) with intent to interfere with air navigation exhibits any light, signal or
communication at such place or in such manner that is likely to be mistaken for
a true light or signal or communication established under this Act, or for a true
light or signal or communication in connection with an aerodrome or other air
navigation facility, or, after due warning by the Director-General, continues to
maintain any such misleading light or signal or communication, or
Forgery or
counterfeiting
of
documents.
Dangerous
flying.
Damage to
air
navigation
and other
facility.

## Page 53

2022  No. 30           A 953Civil Aviation Act, 2022
(b) knowingly removes, extinguishes, or interferes with the operation of
any such true light, signal or communication,
commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine not more than
N10,000,000 or imprisonment for a term not more than five years.
(4)  Any air operator, officer, agent, employee, or representative of it,
who knowingly or willfully—
(a) fails or refuses to make a report to the Authority as required by this
Act,
(b) fails or refuses to make, keep or preserve reports, accounts, records,
and returns in the form and manner prescribed or approved by the Authority,
which reports, accounts, records or returns impacts or has the potential to
have effect on aviation safety or the revenue of the Authority or the Federal
Government, or
(c) mutilates or alters any such reports, accounts, records, or memoranda;
or files false reports, accounts, records, or memoranda,
commits an offence and is liable on conviction for each offence to a fine of at
least N500,000 or imprisonment for six months or both.
(5)  Liability under subsection (4) shall be without prejudice to any
civil or other penalty for failure to file any reports, accounts, records or
memoranda under this Act or regulations made under this Act and the
mutilation of the same.
(6) Every person who shall neglect or refuse to attend and testify, or to
answer any lawful inquiry, or to produce books, papers, or documents, if within
such person’s custody or control to do so, under any subpoena or request of
the Authority, commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of at
least N250,000 or imprisonment for a term not more than six months or both.
83.—(1) Whosoever onboard an aircraft in service unlawfully and
intentionally by force or threat of it, or by coercion or by any other form of
intimidation or by any technological means, seizes or exercises control of an
aircraft or makes a threat to commit the offence set forth in this subsection or
unlawfully and intentionally causes any person to receive such threat under
circumstances which indicate that the threat is credible, commits the offence
of hijacking of such aircraft.
(2) Any person who attempts to commit the offence referred to in
subsection (1) in relation to any aircraft, or  participates as an accomplice to
the commission of any such offence, or unlawfully and intentionally assists
another person to evade investigation, prosecution or punishment, knowing
that the person has committed the offence set forth in subsection (1) or that
the person is wanted for criminal prosecution by law enforcement authorities
for such an offence, commits an offence under this Act.
Hijacking
and
interference.

## Page 54

A 954           2022 No. 30 Civil Aviation Act, 2022
(3)  A person commits an offence if that person intentionally agrees with
one or more other persons to commit the offence set forth in subsections (1)
and (2), or contributes in any other way to the commission of such offence by
a group of persons acting with the common purpose which contribution shall
either be with the aim of furthering the general criminal activity or purposes of
the group to commit the offence set forth in subsections (2) and (3) or made in
the knowledge of the intention of the group to commit such an offence.
(4)  Any person who organises or directs others to commit an offence
set forth in this section commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine
of at least N2,000,000 or imprisonment for a term of at least five years.
(5)  Any person who commits the offence under this section is liable on
conviction to a fine of at least N25,000,000 and also imprisonment for life.
(6)  Any person who in the course of committing the offence of hijacking
of an aircraft, commits, in connection with such offence, any act of violence
against any passenger or member of the crew of such aircraft, shall be liable
to the same punishment with which he would have been liable under any law
for the time being in force in Nigeria if such act had been committed in Nigeria.
(7)  The Federal High Court shall have jurisdiction to try offences under
this section where the—
(a) offence is committed on board an aircraft registered in Nigeria ;
(b) aircraft onboard which the offence is committed lands in Nigeria
with the alleged offender still onboard ;
(c) offence is committed onboard an aircraft leased without crew to a
lessee who has his principal place of business in Nigeria or if he has no
principal place of business, his permanent residence is in Nigeria ;
(d) offence is committed onboard a non-Nigerian registered aircraft
whilst such an aircraft is within the territory of the Federal Republic of
Nigeria ; and
(e) offence is committed by a citizen of Nigeria within or outside the
territory of Nigeria or a citizen of Nigeria or a stateless person whose
habitual residence is in Nigeria.
84.—(1)  Any person who unlawfully and intentionally—
(a) commits an act of violence against a person onboard an aircraft in
flight if that act is likely to endanger the safety of that aircraft ;
(b) destroys an aircraft in service or causes damage to such aircraft
which renders it incapable of flight or which is likely to endanger its safety
in flight ;
Endangering
the safety,
destroying
or damaging
of an
aircraft.

## Page 55

2022  No. 30           A 955Civil Aviation Act, 2022
(c) places or causes to be placed in an aircraft in service, by any means
whatsoever, a device or substance which is likely to destroy the aircraft, or
to cause damage to it which renders it incapable of flight, or to cause
damage to it which is likely to endanger its safety in flight ;
(d) destroys or damages air navigation facilities or interferes with
their operation, if any such act is likely to endanger the safety of aircraft
in flight ;
(e) communicates information which that person knows to be false,
thereby endangering safety of aircraft in flight ;
(f ) uses an aircraft in flight for the purposes of  causing death, serious
bodily injury, or serious damage to property or the environment ;
(g) releases or discharges from an aircraft in flight any biological, chemical
and or nuclear weapon or explosives, radioactive or similar substances in a
manner that causes or  is likely to cause death, serious bodily injury or
serious damage to property or environment ;
(h) uses against or onboard an aircraft in flight any biological, chemical
and or nuclear weapon or explosive, radioactive, or similar substances in a
manner that causes death, serious bodily injury or serious damage to property
or the environment ; or
(i) transports, causes to be transported, or facilitates the transport of,
onboard an aircraft —
(i) any explosives or radioactive material, knowing that it is intended
to be used to cause, or makes a threat to cause, with or without a condition,
death or serious injury or damage for the purpose of intimidating a
population, or compelling a government or an international organisation
to do or to abstain from doing any act,
(ii) any biological, chemical and or nuclear weapon, knowing it to be
a biological, chemical and or nuclear weapon as defined in this Act,
(iii) any source material, special fissionable material, or equipment or
material especially designed or prepared for the processing, use or
production of special fissionable material, knowing that it is intended to
be used in a nuclear explosive activity or in any other nuclear activity not
under relevant internationally safeguards, or
(iv) any equipment, materials or software or related technology that
significantly contributes to the design, manufacture or delivery of a
biological, chemical or nuclear (BCN) weapon without lawful
authorisation and with the intention that it will be used for such purpose,
commits an offence and is liable on conviction to  life imprisonment without
an option of fine.

## Page 56

A 956           2022 No. 30 Civil Aviation Act, 2022
(2) It shall not be an offence under this section if the transport of such
items or materials is consistent with or is for the use or activity that is consistent
with the rights, responsibilities and obligations under the applicable multilateral
non-proliferation treaty to which Nigeria is a party.
(3) Whosoever unlawfully and intentionally, using any device, substance
or weapon—
(a) performs an act of violence against a person at an aerodrome which
causes or is likely to cause serious injury or death ; or
(b) destroys or seriously damages the facilities of an aerodrome or aircraft
not in service located thereon or disrupts the services of the aerodrome, if
such an act endangers safety at that aerodrome, commits an offence and is
liable on conviction to a fine of at least N2,000,000 or imprisonment for a
term of at least five years.
(4) A person who—
(a) makes a threat to commit any of the offences in subsections (1)
(a)-(i) and (3) ;
(b) unlawfully and intentionally causes any person to receive such a
threat under circumstances which indicate that the threat is credible ;
(c) attempts to commit any of the offences set forth in subsections (1)
(a)-(i) or (3) ;
(d) organises or directs others to commit an offence as set forth under
subsections (1) (a)-(i), (3) ;
(e) participates as an accomplice in an offence set forth in subsections
(1), (3) or (4) (a) ; and
(f ) unlawfully and intentionally assists another person to evade
investigation, prosecution or punishment, knowing that the person has
committed an act that constitutes an offence set forth in subsections (1),
(3), (4) (c), (d) or (e), or that the person is wanted for criminal prosecution
by law enforcement authorities for such an offence or has been sentenced
for such an offence,
commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of at least N2,000,000
or imprisonment for a term of at least five years.
85.—(1) Whoever while onboard an aircraft, interferes with a crew
member and such interference impedes the performance of the crew member’s
duties, commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine not more than
N200,000 or imprisonment for a term of at least two months or both.
(2)  Any person who, assaults, intimidates, or threatens any flight crew
member or flight attendant, including any steward or stewardess of such aircraft
Interference
with crew
members.

## Page 57

2022  No. 30           A 957Civil Aviation Act, 2022
or engages in an unruly behavior onboard such aircraft, commits an offence
and is liable on conviction to a fine of at least N200,000 or imprisonment for a
term of at least two months or both.
(3)  Any person who, against instruction of the pilot-in-command or a
flight crew member or cabin crew, uses or operates any equipment or device
including mobile phone that may interfere with the aircraft radio frequency or
other navigational equipment onboard aircraft commits an offence and is liable
on conviction to a fine not more than N200,000 or imprisonment for a term of
at least two months or both.
(4) The pilot-in-command of an aircraft shall take such  reasonable
measures as may be necessary to ensure the safety of the aircraft and
security of passengers on board whenever he is faced with an unruly
passenger behavior and may request the assistance of any person on board
the aircraft in that regard.
PART XIII—JURISDICTION
86.—(1) The Federal High Court  shall have jurisdiction to try offences,
hear and determine proceedings arising under this Act whether or not the
offence was commenced in Nigeria and completed outside Nigeria and the —
(a) offence is committed in the territory of Nigeria ;
(b) offence is committed against or on board an aircraft registered in
Nigeria ;
(c) offence is committed by a national of Nigeria ;
(d)  aircraft on which the offence is committed lands within the territory
of Nigeria with the offender still on board ;
(e) offence is committed against or on board an aircraft leased without
crew to lessee whose principal place of business or, if the lessee has no
such place of business, whose permanent residence is in Nigeria ;
(f ) victim is a citizen or is resident in Nigeria, in transit or has a link with
Nigeria or is dealing with or on behalf of the Government  of Nigeria ; and
(g) alleged offender is in Nigeria and not extradited to any other country
for prosecution.
(2)  The Federal High Court shall have jurisdiction to impose any penalty
provided for an offence under this Act or any other related law.
(3)  Whenever any person is convicted of an offence under this Act, the
court in passing sentence shall, in addition to any penalty which the court may
impose in respect of the offence, order the forfeiture to the Federal Government
of Nigeria and of any property, asset or fund with accrued interest, article,
substance, device, material or conveyance which is reasonably believed to
Jurisdiction
to try
offences
under this
Act.

## Page 58

A 958           2022 No. 30 Civil Aviation Act, 2022
have been used in the commission of the offence or the proceed of any unlawful
activity under this Act and is in the possession, custody or  control of the
convicted person.
(4)  Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (3), the penalty imposed
on a person convicted of an offence referred to in that subsection may be
reduced in such manner as the court deems fit where that person has, before
any proceeding, made possible or facilitated the identification of other accused
persons and their sponsors or who, after the commencement of the
proceedings, has made possible or facilitated the arrest of such persons.
87.—(1) In any proceeding under this Act, the Court shall have power,
notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other law, to adopt all legitimate
measures that it may deem necessary to avoid unnecessary delays and abuse
in the conduct of proceedings.
(2) Subject to the provisions of the Constitution of the Federal Republic
of Nigeria, 1999, an application for stay of proceedings in respect of any
criminal matter brought under this Act shall not be entertained until judgment
is delivered.
PART XIV—INVESTIGA TION AND ENFORCEMENT
88.—(1) An officer of the Authority or a duly authorised law enforcement
officer may apply ex-parte to the court for the issuance of a warrant for the
purposes of conducting an investigation under this Act.
(2)  The court may issue a warrant authorising an officer of the Authority
or any law enforcement officer to—
(a) enter the premises or conveyance specified or described in the
warrant ;
(b) search the premises or conveyance and any person found in it ; and
(c) seize and retain any relevant material found in it.
(3)  The court shall not issue a warrant under subsection (2) unless the
court is satisfied that —
(a) the warrant is sought to prevent the commission of an offence under
this Act or to prevent the interference in an investigation under this Act ;
(b) there are reasonable grounds for believing that there is a person or
material on the premises or conveyance which may be relevant to an
investigation ; or
(c) the person being sought is preparing to commit an offence under
this Act.
Adoption of
measures to
avoid delays.
Cap. C23,
LFN, 2004.
Issuance of
warrant for
investigation.

## Page 59

2022  No. 30           A 959Civil Aviation Act, 2022
89.—(1) Where in a case of verifiable urgency, or a life is threatened, or
to prevent the commission of an offence provided under this Act, an application
to the court or to a Judge in Chambers to obtain a warrant would cause delay
that may be prejudicial to the maintenance of safety and security of air
navigation, an officer of the Authority or a law enforcement officer may without
prejudice to the provisions of section 88 of this Act or any other law, with the
assistance of such other officers as may be necessary and while search warrant
is being sought for —
(a) enter and search any premises or place  if he has reason to suspect
that, within those premises, place or conveyance —
(i) an offence under this Act is being committed or likely to be
committed,
(ii) there is evidence of the commission of an offence under this
Act, or
(iii) there is an urgent need to prevent the commission of an offence
under this Act ;
(b) search any person or conveyance found on any premises or
place which such officer is empowered to enter and search under
paragraph (a) ;
(c) require information from and attendance of any person, beneficiary
or any person connected in any way in a matter under investigation ;
(d) inspect premises, electronics, computer system or recorded
information found on the premises ;
(e) observe the carrying on of business or professional activities by any
person ;
(f ) stop, board and search any conveyance where the Authority or its
authorised officer has reason to suspect that there is evidence of the
commission or likelihood of the commission of an offence under this act ;
(g) seize, remove and detain anything which is, or contains or appears to
him to be or to contain or to be likely to contain, evidence of the commission
of an offence under this Act ; or
(h) arrest, search and detain any person whom the officer reasonably
suspects of having committed or likely to commit an offence under
this Act.
(2) Where a seizure is effected in the course of search or investigation
under this Act, a copy of the list of all the articles, documents and other materials
seized shall be made, duly endorsed and handed to the —
(a) person on whom the search is made ; or
Investigation
or search
without
warrant.

## Page 60

A 960           2022 No. 30 Civil Aviation Act, 2022
(b) owner of the premises, place or conveyance seized.
(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), a woman shall only
be searched by a woman.
(4) Nothing in this section shall be construed as derogating from the
lawful right of any person in defence of his person or property.
(5) Any officer of the Authority or a duly authorised law enforcement
officer who uses such force as may be reasonably necessary for any purpose
in accordance with this Act, shall not be liable in any criminal or civil proceedings,
for having, by the use of reasonable force caused injury or death to any person
or damage to or loss of any property.
90.—(1) Where a person volunteers to the Authority or an official of the
Authority any information which may be useful in the investigation or
prosecution of an offence under this Act or of a violation of the provisions of
this Act and the regulations, orders or directives made or given under this Act,
the Authority shall take all reasonable measures to protect the identity of that
person and the information so volunteered shall be treated as confidential.
(2)  The court may, on a motion by or on behalf of the Attorney-General
of the Federation, the Authority or a law enforcement agency, protect a witness
or other persons in any proceeding before it.
91.—(1) The Authority shall have power to carry out investigations on
its own initiative or upon receipt of a complaint or upon any other occurrence,
save for accidents and serious incidents after due notice to the person
concerned.
(2)  Upon investigation, if the Authority is satisfied that a person is or are
violating any provisions of this Act, regulations, rules, directives or orders, it
shall by order require such person to take such action consistent with the
provisions of this Act, regulations, rules, directives or orders as the Authority
may deem necessary to remedy the violation and prevent further violation.
(3)   The Authority shall have power to take all steps reasonably necessary,
including the power to ground any aircraft and to seal the premises of any air
transport service provider or provider of allied aviation service, in order to
ensure compliance with the provisions of this Act and the regulations, rules
and orders made under it.
(4)  Any person may file with the Authority a complaint in writing with
respect to anything done or omitted to be done by any person in contravention
of any provision of this Act, regulations, rules, directives or orders or of any
requirement established under it.
Protection of
informants
and
witnesses.
Complaints
to and
investigations
by the
Authority.

## Page 61

2022  No. 30           A 961Civil Aviation Act, 2022
(5)  Where the person complained against does not satisfy the complaint
and there appears any reasonable ground for investigating the complaint, it
shall be the duty of the Authority to investigate the matters set forth in the
complaint and whenever the Authority is of the opinion that any complaint
does not state facts which warrant an investigation or action, such complaint
may be dismissed without hearing.
(6)  Where the Authority finds,  after an  investigation  instituted
upon complaint or upon the Authority’s initiative, with respect to matters
within the Authority’s jurisdiction, that any person has failed to comply
with any provision of this Act, regulations, rules, directives or orders or
any requirement established under it, the Authority shall, consistent with
the provisions of this Act, issue an appropriate order to compel such person
to comply without prejudice to other provisions in this Act with respect to
the powers of the Authority to impose penalties.
92.—(1)  The Authority may hold hearings, issue subpoenas, administer
oaths, examine witnesses, and receive evidence.
(2)  For the purposes of this Act, the Authority shall have the power to
require by subpoena the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the
production of all books, papers, documents and information, whether
electronically stored or otherwise.
(3)   The Authority may receive testimony by deposition in any proceeding
or investigation pending before it and such depositions may be taken before
any person designated by the Authority and having power to administer oaths.
(4)  Reasonable notice shall first be given in writing by the party or the
party’s attorney proposing to take such deposition to the opposite party or the
party’s attorney of record, which notice shall state the name of the witness
and the time and place of the taking of the deposition.
(5)  Any person may be compelled to appear and be deposed, and to
produce books, papers, documents and information, whether electronically
stored or otherwise, in the same manner as witnesses may be compelled to
appear and testify and produce like documentary evidence before the Authority,
as provided.
(6)  Where a witness whose testimony may be desired to be taken by
deposition is in a foreign country, the deposition may be taken, subject to the
laws of the foreign country where the deposition is to be taken, by a person
appointed by the Authority.
Oral, written
and
electronic
evidence.

## Page 62

A 962           2022 No. 30 Civil Aviation Act, 2022
93.—(1) A video recording shall be made and kept in respect of any
person, conveyance or property detained under any provision of this Act as
may be required by the Authority.
(2) Records in respect of any person, conveyance or property detained
under any provision of this Act shall be kept in the custody of the Director-
General.
(3) Subject to the provisions of the Evidence Act, a video recording
and other forms of electronic evidence shall be admissible in evidence
before any court of competent jurisdiction in Nigeria for the trial of offences
under this Act.
94.—(1) It shall be the duty of every foreign air operator in Nigeria to
designate in writing an agent in Nigeria upon whom service of all notices,
letters and processes and all orders, directives, decisions, and requirements of
the Authority may be made for and on behalf of the air operator or foreign air
operator, and to file such designation with the Authority and such designation
may be changed by subsequent filing.
(2) Service of all notices, letters, processes and of orders, directives,
decisions, and requirements of the Authority may be made upon any air operator
or foreign air operator by service upon its designated agent at their office in
Nigeria or place of residence in Nigeria or by electronic mail with the same
effect as personal service upon such air operator or foreign air operator.
(3) Where a designated agent is in default or is absent, service of any
notice, letters, directives or other process in any proceedings before the
Authority, or of any order, decision, or requirement of the Authority, may be
made by posting such notice, process, order, requirement, or decision at the
office or location of the designated agent or to his electronic mail address on
file with the Authority.
(4)  Service of notices, processes, orders, rules, and directives upon any
person may be made by personal service or upon an agent designated in
writing for this purpose, or by courier, registered or certified mail or electronic
mail addressed to such person or agent.
(5)  Whenever service is made by courier, registered or certified mail or
electronic mail, the date of mailing or sending the electronic mail, if delivered,
shall be considered as the date when service is made.
Video
recording
and custody
of records
Act No. 18,
2011
Designation
of agent for
service.

## Page 63

2022  No. 30           A 963Civil Aviation Act, 2022
PART XV—AIR OPERA TOR ECONOMIC REGULA TION
95.—(1) Subject to the provisions of section 68 of this Act —
(a) no aircraft shall be used by any person in Nigeria for flying, while
carrying passengers or cargo for reward, on such journeys or classes of
journeys (whether beginning and ending at the same point or at different
points) or for such flying undertaking for the purpose of any trade or
business, except under the authority of and in accordance with a licence,
permit, or other authorisation issued to him by the Authority ; and
(b) no aircraft shall be used by any person in Nigeria for any other
purpose save for military, police, customs, or immigration operations, except
under the authority of and in accordance with a licence, permit, or other
authorisation issued by the Authority.
(2) The Authority may by regulations prescribe the types of licences,
permits, certificates or other authorisation, which may be issued and the terms
and conditions upon which they may be issued.
(3) Nothing in this section shall restrict the right of a designated air
transport undertaking, having its principal place of business in any country
outside Nigeria, to provide transport for passengers, mail or cargo—
(a) in accordance with the terms of any agreement for the time being in
force between the Government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and the
government of that country ; or
(b) in accordance with the terms of any permission granted by the Minister
pending the completion of the negotiations for such an agreement referred
to in paragraph (a).
(4)  An application for the grant of a licence, permit, certificate or other
authorisation shall be made in writing to the Authority and contain such
particulars with respect to such matters as the Authority may specify in a
notice published in the prescribed manner and where an application is made
for the grant of any such licence, permit, certificate or other  authorisation, the
Authority shall, either grant such licence, permit, certificate or other authorisation
to the applicant in the terms requested in the application, or in those terms
with such modifications as the Authority thinks fit, or refuse to grant such
licence, permit, certificate or other authorisation.
(5) Where the Authority is satisfied that an application made for the
grant of any such licence, permit or authorisation has met and complied with
the prescribed requirements, the Authority may grant such licence, permit,
certificate or authorisation to the applicant with such modification as the
Authority thinks fit or refuse to grant such licence, permit, certificate or
authorisation if it is not in the public interest to do so.
Control of
air transport
undertaking.

## Page 64

A 964           2022 No. 30 Civil Aviation Act, 2022
(6)  Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (1) and (3), the Authority
shall have and exercise the powers generally to—
(a) regulate, supervise and monitor the activities of Nigerian and foreign
carriers, travel and other aviation agents operating in Nigeria, and to keep a
register in respect of it ;
(b) require periodic statistical, financial and special returns and or reports
from any air carrier, prescribe the manner and form in which such reports
or returns shall be made, and require from any air carrier specific answers
to questions upon which it deems information may be necessary ;
(c) prescribe the form of financial records and data to be kept by air
carriers and the length of time such records and data may be preserved ;
(d) require every  Nigerian  and foreign carrier to file and keep open for
public inspection, tariffs showing all rates, fares and charges charged by it,
in such form and manner as may be prescribed by the Authority and to
reject tariffs so filed which are unfair and or inconsistent with any provisions
of this Act or regulations, rules, orders and directives, provided that the
rates, fares and charges shown in any tariff shall in the first instance be
denominated in local currency, without prejudice to those being denominated
in foreign currencies in the case of foreign carriers ;
(e) require an air carrier to maintain reasonable and adequate rates of
compensation and other conditions of service for its employees consistent
with prevailing labour practices in the industry ;
(f ) require domestic air carriers to submit annually and at such other
times as it may deem fit, a list showing the names of its shareholders or any
person holding more than 5% of the shares in the air carrier together with
the names of any person on whose behalf such shares are held ;
(g) require every Nigerian carrier to file with the Authority, a true copy
of every contract or agreement affecting air transportation or any
modification or cancellation of it, between the air carrier and any other air
carrier or other bodies or persons, for leases, pooling, ticket sales, service
authority or apportioning earnings, losses, traffic, service  or equipment or
relating to establishment of transportation  fares,  charges or classifications,
or  for  preserving  and  improving safety, maintenance, preventing or
otherwise eliminating destructive, oppressive or wasteful competition or
for any other co-operative working arrangement ;
(h) disapprove of such contract or agreement described in paragraph
(g), whether or not previously approved, if the Authority determines that
such contract is adverse to the public interest or to be in violation of the
provisions of this Act, regulations, rules and orders, directives  made or
given by the Authority under this Act ;

## Page 65

2022  No. 30           A 965Civil Aviation Act, 2022
(i) investigate and determine upon its own initiative or upon receipt of a
complaint by any air carrier, air travel agent, consumer of air transport
service or other allied aviation service, whether any air carrier, air travel
agent or provider of any other allied aviation service has been or is engaged
in unfair or deceptive practices or unfair methods of competition in air
transportation, the sale of tickets or in the provision of other allied aviation
service and  order such air carrier, air travel agent or other allied aviation
service provider to desist from such practices or methods of competition
and in addition, the Authority shall impose such fines or penalties as may be
prescribed by this Act or regulations made under it ;
(j) establish procedures for investigation and determination of requests
or applications for special operating authorisations, such procedures may
include written notice to holders of air operator certificates to make
submissions which may be heard orally in support of such applications as
will not unduly delay the issuance of the special operating authorisation,
taking into consideration the degree or emergency involved ;
(k) participate in and advise the  Minister on technical matters including
bilateral and multilateral air  services agreements, and generally on activities
of international and regional aviation organisations ;
(l) regulate and institute programmes for the protection of aviation and
allied services consumer interests and provide redress in a timely manner
to complaints of consumers ;
(m) specify the fees to be paid for the issue, validation, renewal, extension
or variation of any certificate, licence, permit or other document issued
under this Act or the undergoing of any examination or test required which
may be expedient for the purpose of the regulation of fees charged ;
(n) prescribe the minimum insurance cover to be maintained by air
operator certificate holders, aerodrome operators, ground handling service
providers, air traffic control service providers, and any other service provider,
taking into account, the respective risks involved in such operations ;
(o) fix and impose charges in respect of the grant of any licence, permit,
certificate or other authorisation to any person under this Act or regulations
made under it and in respect of the registration of aircraft or mortgages in
respect of it, approvals, consents and any other form of benefit conferred
on any person under this Act or the regulations made under it ;
(p) conduct economic regulation of airlines, aerodromes, air navigation
service providers, other aviation and allied aviation service providers ; and
(q) regulate the charges that may be made in respect of air traffic control
and meteorological services and for the use of aerodromes certified under
the regulations and for services provided at such aerodromes.

## Page 66

A 966           2022 No. 30 Civil Aviation Act, 2022
(7)  Subject to the provisions of any other law, the Authority shall make
and enforce regulations to ensure fair competition in the provision of air transport
services and for the protection of aviation and allied services consumers’
interests.
PART XVI—SUPPLEMENTARY PROVISIONS RELA TING
TO LICENCES AND PERMITS
96.—(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of section 17 of the Nigerian
Investment Promotion Commission Act, the Authority shall not grant any
licence, permit, certificate or other authorisation under an application, unless it
is satisfied that —
(a) the applicant is—
(i) a citizen of Nigeria, or
(ii) being a company or a body corporate, is registered in Nigeria and
has its principal place of business within Nigeria, and is controlled by
Nigerian nationals ;
(b) the applicant is a fit person, having regard to—
(i) his and his employees’ experience in the field of aviation and his
and their past activities generally, and
(ii) where the applicant is a body corporate, whether the person
appearing to the Authority to exercise control over it, is a person possessing
relevant and sufficient skill and experience in the field of aviation and fit
and proper to operate aircraft under the authority of the licence, permit,
certificate or other authorisation which the Authority shall grant to it ; or
(c) the resources of the applicant and the financial arrangements made
by him are adequate for discharging his actual and potential obligations in
respect of the business activities in which he is engaged if any, and in which
he may be expected to engage if he is granted the licence, permit, certificate
or other authorisation which the Authority considers should be granted to
him under the application.
(2)  The provisions of subsection (1) shall not apply to any licence, permit,
certificate or other authorisation needed by a person for the purpose of
operating an aircraft for private use only.
97.—(1) Where the Authority takes a decision refusing to grant, vary,
cancel, suspend or revoke a licence, permit, certificate or other authorisation,
the Authority shall subject to subsection (2), furnish a statement  of  the reasons
for  the decision to the applicant for the licence, permit,  certificate  or other
authorisation, or as the case may be, to the holder and to any other person
who in accordance with rules made under this Act has filed an objection in the
case or requested such a statement, provided that, no statement of reasons
Eligibility
for licences
and permits.
Cap. N117
LFN, 2004.
Refusal to
grant
licences or
permits.

## Page 67

2022  No. 30           A 967Civil Aviation Act, 2022
need be furnished in pursuance of a request by the holder of a licence, permit,
certificate or other authorisation for the variation, cancellation, suspension or
revocation of it.
(2) The Authority may refrain from furnishing a statement of reasons
under subsection (1), if it has reason to believe that it might adversely affect
the security interest of Nigeria or the relationship of Nigeria with any other
country.
(3)  The Authority may publish in such manner as it thinks fit particulars
of, and of its reasons for, any decision taken with respect to a licence, permit,
certificate or other authorisation or an application for such a licence, permit,
certificate or other authorisation.
(4)  A person who, for the purpose of obtaining for himself or another
person a licence, permit, certificate or other authorisation or with regard to a
variation or the cancellation or suspension or revocation of a licence, permit,
certificate or other authorisation knowingly or recklessly furnishes to the
Authority any information which is false, commits an offence and is liable on
conviction to a fine of at least N500,000 or imprisonment for a term of at least
six months or both.
98.—(1) The Authority shall perform its air transport licensing functions
in the manner which it considers best to ensure that Nigerian registered airlines
compete as effectively as possible with other airlines in providing air transport
services on international routes, and in performing those functions the Authority
shall also have regard to—
(a) any advice received from the Minister with respect to the likely
outcome of negotiations with the government of any other country or territory
for the purpose of securing any right required for the operation by an airline
in Nigeria of any air transport services outside Nigeria ; and
(b) the need to secure the most effective use of aerodromes within
Nigeria.
(2) In considering whether to grant a licence, permit, certificate or other
authorisation, it shall be the duty of the Authority to have regard to the effect
on existing air transport services provided by Nigerian registered airlines, of
authorising any new services the applicant proposes to provide under  the
licence, permit, certificate or other authorisation.
(3) Where two or more applicants have applied for the same licence,
permit, certificate or other authorisation under which each proposes to provide
similar services, the Authority shall have regard in particular to any benefits
which may arise from enabling two or more airlines to provide the services in
question.
General
duties
relating to
licensing
function of
the
Authority.

## Page 68

A 968           2022 No. 30 Civil Aviation Act, 2022
99.—(1) A foreign air operator shall not engage in commercial air
transport within Nigeria unless it has been issued a permit.
(2)  Application for a permit shall be made in writing to the Director-
General and shall be in such form and contain such information as the Authority
shall require.
(3)  The Authority may alter, amend, modify, or suspend any such permit,
in whole or in part, for failure to comply with any provision of this section or
any order, rule, regulation or directive issued or given under it or any term,
condition, or limitation of such permit.
(4) Any interested person may file with the Authority a protest or
memorandum in support of or in opposition to the alteration, amendment,
modification, suspension, or revocation of a permit under subsection (3).
100.—(1) The Authority may establish and operate a training facility,
academy or similar establishment for the purpose of conducting training in
safety, security and economic oversight in civil aviation.
(2) The Authority may charge such fees as it deems necessary for
conducting such training.
101.—(1) The Authority may by regulation make such provisions as it
deems necessary, to prohibit or discourage anti-competitive practices.
(2)  Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1), such practices
may include —
(a) charging fares and rates on routes at levels which are in aggregate,
insufficient to cover the costs of providing the services to which they relate ;
(b) the addition of excessive capacity or frequency of service ;
(c)  practices which have a serious negative economic effect on, or
cause significant damage to another airline or allied aviation service
provider ;
(d) practices which reflect an apparent intent or have the probable effect
of crippling, excluding or preventing another airline or allied aviation service
provider from the market ; and
(e) any behavior indicating an abuse of dominant position on any route or
in respect of any allied service.
102.—(1) The Authority shall make regulations for suitable compensation
of passengers and other aviation and allied service consumers arising from
different forms of grievances.
Permit to
foreign air
operators.
Power to
establish
training
facility.
Aviation
safeguards.
Compensation
schemes for
passengers
and other
aviation
services
consumers

## Page 69

2022  No. 30           A 969Civil Aviation Act, 2022
(2) The regulations under subsection (1) shall be formulated after holding
consultations with air carriers and other stakeholders.
103.—(1) All persons engaged in the sale, distribution and provision of
allied services shall obtain such licence, permit or authorisation from the
Authority as may be specified.
(2) The Authority may make rules and regulations in this behalf, which
may, inter alia, include —
(a) the categories, including aircraft equipment sale or leasing operations,
in-flight catering services, ground handling operations, aviation fuel supplier
and other businesses connected with or ancillary to civil aviation, amongst
others, in which the licence, permit or authorisation may be granted ;
(b) the information to be furnished by an applicant for the licence ;
(c) the terms and conditions subject to which the licence, permit or
authorisation may be granted ; and
(d) the circumstances under which the licence, permit or authorisation
may be suspended or revoked.
104.—(1)  Any carrier operating air transport services to, from or within
Nigeria, or aerodrome operator, aviation fuel supplier, or any provider of ground
handling services, meteorological services, air traffic control services, aircraft
maintenance services, or provider of such other class of allied service as the
Authority may determine in writing, shall maintain adequate insurance covering
its liability under this Act and also its liability towards compensation for damages
that may be sustained by third parties for an amount to be specified in regulations
made by the Authority.
(2) Absence of such insurance shall be sufficient reason for refusal,
suspension or revocation of the authorisation to operate the service or services
in question.
(3)  Any person having a duty to maintain adequate insurance under the
provision of subsection (1) shall make quarterly returns to the Authority
evidencing that such adequate insurance is maintained and that all conditions
necessary to create an obligation on the insurer to provide indemnity in the
event of a loss have for the time being been fulfilled.
(4)  Any carrier operating air transport services to, from or within Nigeria,
or aerodrome operator, aviation fuel supplier, or any provider of ground
services, meteorological services, air traffic control services, aircraft
maintenance services, or provider of other allied aviation service, who
contravenes the provisions of subsections (1) and (3), commits an offence
and is liable on conviction to a fine of at least N10,000,000 and its principal
officers shall be liable to imprisonment for a term of at least two years.
Regulation
of sale,
distribution
and
provision of
allied
services.
Insurance.

## Page 70

A 970           2022 No. 30 Civil Aviation Act, 2022
PART XVII—MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
105.—(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law or
enactment, no action shall lie against the Authority, a member of the Board,
the Director-General or any other employee of the Authority, in the execution
of any public duty under this Act or any law, or in respect of any alleged
negligence or default in execution of any public duty under this Act or such
law, unless it is commenced within three months next after the act, negligence,
or default complained of, or in the case of continuance of damage or injury,
within one year after the ceasing of it.
(2) A suit shall not be commenced against the Authority, a member of
the Board, the Director-General or any other employee of the Authority before
the expiration of a period of one month after written notice of intention to
commence the suit shall have been served upon the Authority by the intending
plaintiff or his agent; and the notice shall clearly and explicitly state the cause
of action, the particulars of the claim, the name and place of abode of the
plaintiff and the relief sought.
(3)  An action shall not lie against the Authority, a member of the Board,
the Director-General, or any other employee of the Authority for an act done
in pursuance or execution of the powers conferred upon the Authority in respect
of any decision taken on matters relating to safety and security of civil aviation
or in execution of any of the provisions of this Act.
106.—(1) In any action or suit against the Authority, no execution shall
be levied or attachment process issued against the property of the Authority
unless not less than three months’ notice of the intention to execute or attach
has been given to the Authority.
(2) The funds or account of the Authority shall not be attached or
garnisheed in furtherance of a judgment debt unless with the consent and
approval of the Attorney-General of the Federation.
107.  A member of the Board, the Director-General, or employee of the
Authority shall be indemnified by the Authority against any civil proceeding
brought against him arising from the lawful discharge of any of the functions
or the exercise of any of the powers conferred on the Authority under this Act
or any other law.
108.  The Authority shall have the power to co-operate and collaborate
with any authority, commission or agency in the performance of the functions
of the Authority under this Act.
109.—(1) The Authority, may subject to the Land Use Act or the
applicable law regulating the use of land in Nigeria, acquire any land for the
purpose of performing its functions under this Act.
Limitation
of action
against the
Authority.
Restriction
on execution
against
property of
the
Authority.
Indemnification
of officers.
Cooperation
with other
agencies.
Power to
acquire land.
Cap. L5,
LFN 2004.

## Page 71

2022  No. 30           A 971Civil Aviation Act, 2022
(2) Where there is any hindrance in the acquisition of any land by the
Authority under this Act including any failure by the Authority to reach an
agreement as to the amount to be paid in respect of the acquisition, the Authority
may apply to the Minister for a declaration under subsection (3).
(3)  The Minister on receiving an application from the Authority and
after such enquiry as he may think fit, may request the Governor of the State
in which the land is situated to declare that the land is required for the service
of the Authority and accordingly for an over-riding public purpose.
(4)  Where a declaration is made under subsection (3), the land to which
the declaration relates shall be deemed to be land required for the public
purpose of the Federation within the meaning of the Land Use Act and the
Authority shall acquire the land accordingly.
(5) Where a declaration has been made under subsection (3) in respect
of any land and—
(a) the land has been acquired under subsection (4) ; or
(b) the Governor of the State where the land is situate is satisfied that
there is no right subsisting in respect of the land, the Governor may vest the
land in the Authority by issuing a certificate of occupancy in respect of it, in
favour and in the name of the Authority.
(6) The compensation, if any, payable under the Land Use Act for the
revocation of any right relating to the land, where applicable, shall in the first
instance be paid by the Federal Government, but the Authority shall refund to
the Federal Government any compensation so paid and all incidental expenses
incurred by the Government.
(7)  A plan of any land referred to in subsection (2)—
(a) containing measurements of the boundaries of the land,
(b) showing the relationship of the land to any sufficient identifying
mark, and
(c) signed by a licensed surveyor and the Director-General,
shall be sufficient description of the land for the purpose of an application
under that subsection.
110.—(1) The Minister may request the Governor to make regulations,
orders or give directives for the purposes of preventing lands adjacent to or in
the vicinity of an aerodrome or aerodrome site from being used or developed
in a manner that is, incompatible with the operation of an aerodrome, preventing
lands adjacent to or in the vicinity of an aerodrome or aerodrome site from
being used or developed in a manner that is, incompatible with the safe operation
of an aircraft, and preventing lands adjacent to or in the vicinity of equipment
Restriction
on use of
adjacent
land.

## Page 72

A 972           2022 No. 30 Civil Aviation Act, 2022
or facilities used to provide services relating to aeronautics from being used or
developed in a manner that would cause interference with signals or
communications to and from aircraft or to and from those facilities.
(2) The Minister may request the Governor to acquire and reserve lands
adjacent to or in the vicinity of an aerodrome or aerodrome site for future
expansion of the aerodrome.
(3) The Authority shall monitor developments on land adjacent to or in
the vicinity of aerodromes or aerodrome sites in order to ensure compliance
with the regulations, orders or directives made or given by the Governor.
111.—(1) Any notice required or authorised under this Act to be served
on any person may be served either by—
(a) delivering it to the person or his agents or servants ;
(b) leaving it at the person’s proper address ;
(c) posting it to the person’s principal office by registered post or
courier ; or
(d) sending it to the person’s electronic mail address.
(2)  Any notice required or authorised to be served upon a body corporate
shall be deemed to have been duly served if it is served on a Director of or the
Secretary to the body corporate.
(3) For the purpose of this section, the proper address of any person on
whom such a notice is to be served shall—
(a) in the case of a body corporate, be that of the registered or principal
office of the body corporate ; and
(b) in any other case, be the last known address of the person.
112.  A notice, summons or other document required or authorised to be
served upon the Authority under the provisions of this Act shall be served by
delivering same to the office of the Director-General of the Authority situate
at the headquarters of the Authority.
113. The Authority shall make regulations for the registration of births and
deaths occurring in aircraft and particulars of persons missing from the aircraft.
114. The Civil Aviation Act, No.6, 2006 is repealed.
115.—(1) Without prejudice to section 6 of the Interpretation Act, the
repeal of the Act specified in section 114 of this Act, shall not affect anything
done under the Act.
(2) Every regulation, order, requirement, certificate, notice, directive,
decision, authorisation, advisory circular, all operators’ letter, consent, application,
Service of
notices.
Service of
documents.
Registration
of births and
deaths.
Repeals.
Savings
provisions.
Cap. I23,
LFN, 2004.

## Page 73

2022  No. 30           A 973Civil Aviation Act, 2022
request or thing made, issued, given or done under the repealed Act shall, if in
force at the commencement of this Act, continue to be in force and have effect
as if made, issued, given or done under the corresponding provisions of this Act.
(3)  All rights, liabilities, assets, funds, resources and other movable and
immovable property which, immediately before the commencement of this
Act, vested in the former Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority shall by virtue of
this Act be vested in the Authority established under section 4 of this Act.
(4) Every reference to the former Authority, Board, Minister, Director-
General, Board Chairman or any person under their control or a document
issued in the name of the former Authority, Board, Minister, Director-General,
Chairman of the former Board or employee of the former Authority shall be
read, unless the context otherwise requires, as a reference to the Authority,
Minister, Board, Director-General, Chairman, or an employee of the Authority
established under this Act, as the case may be.
116.—(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Director-General of
the Authority established under the repealed Act is deemed to have been
transferred to the Authority established under this Act under the same conditions
as Director-General of the Authority.
(2)  Any person who immediately before the commencement of this Act
was a staff of the Authority established under the repealed Act shall continue
in office and be deemed to have been appointed under this Act for purposes of
pension, where applicable.
(3) Properties held immediately before the commencement date of this
Act on behalf of the Authority by any person shall, by virtue of this Act, be
vested in the Authority established under this Act.
(4)  The Authority established in section 4 of this Act shall be subject to
all the obligations and liabilities to which the former Authority was subject
immediately before the commencement of this Act and all other persons shall
have the same rights, powers and remedies against the Authority established
by this Act as they had against the Authority immediately before the
commencement of this Act.
(5)  Any proceeding or cause of action pending or existing immediately
before the commencement of this Act by or against the Authority established
under the repealed Act in respect of any right, interest, obligation or liability
of the Authority may be continued or commenced, as the case may be,
and any determination of a court of law, tribunal or other commission or
person may be enforced by or against the Authority established by this
Act to the same extent that such proceeding, cause of action or
determination might have been continued, commenced or enforced by or
against the Authority as if this Act had not been made.
Transitional
provisions.

## Page 74

A 974           2022 No. 30 Civil Aviation Act, 2022
(6)  As from the commencement of this Act, any disciplinary proceeding
pending or existing against any employee of the Authority shall be continued
and completed by the Authority established under this Act.
117.—(1) In this Act —
“aerodrome” means a defined area on land or water including any
buildings, installations, and equipment intended to be used either wholly or
in part for the arrival, departure and surface movement of aircraft ;
“aircraft” means any machine that can derive support in the atmosphere
from reactions of the air other than reactions of the air against the earth’s
surface ;
“air navigation services” includes information, direction and other
facilities furnished, issued or provided in connection with the navigation or
movement of aircraft and the control of movement of vehicles in any part
of an aerodrome used for the movement of aircraft ;
“airfare” means the price of an airline ticket excluding statutory fees
and taxes ;
“airport” has the same meaning as aerodrome ;
“allied aviation business” includes aircraft equipment sale or leasing
operations, in-flight catering services, ground handling operations and other
businesses connected with or ancillary to civil aviation ;
“Authority” means the Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority established by
section 4 (1) of this Act ;
“BCN weapon” means —
(a) “biological weapons” which are —
(i) microbial or other biological agents, toxins whatever their origin
or method of production, of types and in quantities that have no
justification for prophylactic, protective or other peaceful purposes,
(ii) weapons, equipment or means of delivery designed to use such
agents or toxins for hostile purposes or in armed conflict,
(b) “chemical weapons”, which are, together or separately toxic
chemicals and their precursors, except where intended for —
(i) industrial, agricultural, research, medical, pharmaceutical or other
peaceful purposes,
(ii) protective purposes, namely those purposes directly related to
protection against   toxic chemicals and to protection against chemical
weapons,
(iii) military purposes not connected with the use of chemical
weapons and not dependent on the use of toxic properties of chemicals
as a method of warfare, or
Interpretation.

## Page 75

2022  No. 30           A 975Civil Aviation Act, 2022
(iv) law enforcement including domestic and control purposes, as
long as the types and quantities are consistent with such purposes ;
(c)  munitions and devices specifically designed to cause death or
other harm through the toxic properties of those toxic chemicals specified
in paragraph (a) (i), which would be released as a result of the
employment of such munitions and devices ;
(d)  any equipment specifically designed for use directly in connection
with the employment of munitions and devices specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) ; and
(e) nuclear weapons and other nuclear explosive devices ;
“cargo” means any property carried on an aircraft other than mail
stores and accompanied or mishandled baggage ;
“Chicago Convention” means the Convention on International Civil
Aviation concluded at Chicago on the 7th December 1944, any Annex
which relates to international standards and recommended practices and
is adopted in accordance with the Convention and any amendment of the
Convention or of such Annex which is made in accordance with the
Convention ;
“civil aviation operations”  includes   ground   handling  operations,
air   operations,   aerodrome  operations, meteorological services, air traffic
control and provision of navigational aids, catering and allied services ;
“Constitution” means the Constitution of the Federal Republic of
Nigeria, 1999 ;
“Director-General” means the Director-General of the Authority ;
“foreign aircraft” means an aircraft other than a Nigerian registered
aircraft ;
“ICAO” means International Civil Aviation Organisation established
under the Chicago Convention ;
“in-flight” for the purpose of this Act, an aircraft is said to be in-flight
at any time from the moment when all its external doors are closed following
embarkation until the moment when any such door is opened for
disembarkation and in the case of forced landing, the flight shall be deemed
to continue until the competent authorities take over the responsibility for
the aircraft and for the persons and property on board ;
“in-service” for the purpose of this Act, an aircraft is said to be in-
service from the beginning of the preflight preparation of the aircraft by
ground personnel or by the crew or for the crew for a specific flight until
twenty-four hours after any landing; the period of service shall, in any
event, extend for the entire period during which the aircraft is in flight ;
“licence” includes  air transport  licence,  air  operators  permit ,  air
travelers organisers licence, air operators certificate, certificates of

## Page 76

A 976           2022 No. 30 Civil Aviation Act, 2022
airworthiness, certificate of registration, personnel licences and ratings,
aerodrome licence, aviation training organisations approvals or certificates,
aircraft maintenance organisation approvals or certificates and all other
authorisations and approvals issued under this Act ;
“mail” means dispatches of correspondence and other items tendered
by and intended for delivery to postal services in accordance with the rules
of the Universal Postal Union and includes electronic mail ;
“member” means a member of the Governing Board of the Authority
and includes the Chairman ;
“Minister” means the Minister of the Government of the Federation
responsible for Civil Aviation ;
“Nigerian aircraft” means an aircraft registered in Nigeria under
regulations made under this Act ;
“person” when used in this Act includes a natural person, a juristic
person, an inflight security officer or an air marshal deployed on a flight
under a bilateral or multilateral treaty or agreement ;
“precursors” means any chemical reactant which takes part at any stage
in the production by whatever method of a toxic chemical and this includes
any key component of a binary or multi component chemical system ;
“premises” includes lands, plants, and ancillary works ;
“prescribed” means prescribed by regulations made under this Act ;
“Regulations” in this Act is a reference to all subsidiary legislations
made under this Act, and includes orders, circulars, directives or any such
other instrument as the Authority may issue ; and
“reward” in relation to a flight, includes any form of consideration received
or required to be received wholly or partly in connection with the flight
irrespective of the person by whom or to whom the consideration has been
or is to be given.
(2) Every other term shall have the same meaning as contained in the
Chicago Convention and the Annexes to the Convention.
118. This Act may be cited as the Civil Aviation Act, 2022.Citation.

## Page 77

2022  No. 30           A 977Civil Aviation Act, 2022
SCHEDULES
FIRST SCHEDULE Section 5(6), 6(2)(j)
and 11(3)(e)
SUPPLEMENTARY PROVISIONS RELATING TO THE BOARD
Proceedings of the Board
1. Subject to this Act and section 27 of the Interpretation Act, the Board
shall have power to regulate its proceedings and may make standing orders
with respect to the holding of its meetings, and those of its committees, notices
to be given, the keeping of minutes of its proceedings, the custody and
production for inspection of such minutes and such other matters as the Board
may determine.
2. There shall be at least one ordinary meeting of the Board in each
quarter of the year and subject thereto, the Board shall meet whenever it is
convened by the Chairman, and if the Chairman is requested to do so by
notice given to him by not less than four other members, he shall convene a
meeting of the Board to be held within 30 days from the date on which the
notice was given.
3. Every meeting of the Board shall be presided over by the Chairman
and if the Chairman is unable to attend a particular meeting, the members
present at the meeting shall elect one of them to preside at the meeting.
4. The minutes of the Board shall be recorded by the Secretary and
signed by the Chairman or the person who presided at the meeting, after
confirmation by the Board.
5. A quorum at a meeting of the Board shall be four members.
Convening of Meetings of the Board
6. The Chairman shall, at any time, if five other members request in
writing, convene an emergency meeting of the Board, provided that not less
than 48 hours’ notice is given to members for the meeting.
7. If the  office of Chairman is at any time vacant, or the Chairman is
absent from Nigeria or is in the opinion of the Board permanently or temporarily
unable to perform the functions of his office, the Director-General shall convene
such meetings of the Board as are required during the period of vacancy,
absence or otherwise.
8. The Board shall meet for the conduct of its business at such places
and on such days as the Chairman may appoint.

## Page 78

A 978           2022 No. 30 Civil Aviation Act, 2022
9. A question put before the Board at a meeting shall be decided by
consensus and where this is not possible, by a majority of the votes of the
members present and voting.
10. The Chairman shall, in the case of an equality of votes, have a casting
vote in addition to his deliberative vote.
11. Where the Board seeks the advice of any person on a particular
matter, the Board may invite that person to attend for such period as it deems
fit, but a person who is invited by virtue of this paragraph shall not be entitled
to vote at any meeting of the Board and shall not count towards the quorum.
Committees
12. The Board may appoint one or more committees to carry out on
behalf of the Board such of its functions as the Board may determine and
report on any matter with which the Board is concerned.
13.  A committee appointed under paragraph 12 of this Schedule shall be
presided over by a member of the Board and shall consist of such number of
persons (not necessarily all members of the Board) as, may be determined by
the Board, and a person other than a member of the Board shall hold office on
the committee in accordance with the terms of his appointment.
14.  A person who is not a member of the Board shall hold office on the
committee in accordance with his letter of appointment.
15.  A decision of a committee of the Board shall be of no effect until it
is confirmed by the Board.
Seal of the Authority
16. The application of the common seal of the Authority shall be
authenticated by the signature of the Director-General on behalf of the
Authority or by any other person authorised by him.
17.  A contract or an instrument which, if made or executed by any
person not being a body corporate, would not be required to be under seal,
may be made or executed on behalf of the Authority by the Director-General
or by any person generally or specifically authorised to act for that purpose by
the Board.
18. A document purporting to be a contract, an instrument or other
document signed or sealed on behalf of the Authority shall be received in
evidence and, unless the contrary is proved, be presumed without further
proof, to have been properly signed or sealed.

## Page 79

2022  No. 30           A 979Civil Aviation Act, 2022
Conflict of interest
19. The Minister of Aviation, members of the Governing Board, the
Director-General, and employees of the Ministry of Aviation and the Authority
shall not control, manage or operate any aviation enterprise while in office.
20.  Any of the persons specified in paragraph 19 of this Schedule, having
a financial interest in any aviation enterprise shall make full disclosure of such
interest to their respective appointing authorities.
21.  The persons mentioned in paragraph 19 of this Schedule are prohibited
from participating in any action or decision that may, whether directly or
indirectly affect their financial interest in any aviation enterprise.
Miscellaneous
22. The validity of any proceeding of the Board or its committees shall
not be affected by —
(a)  any vacancy in the membership of the Board or its committees ;
(b)  reason that a person not entitled to do so took part in the
proceedings ; or
(c) any defect in the appointment of a member.
23.  Any member of the Board or committee who has a personal interest
in any arrangement entered into or proposed to be considered by the Board or
any committee shall—
(a) disclose his interest to the Board or committee ; and
(b) not vote on any question relating to the arrangement.
24.  A resolution of the Board is valid, even though it is not passed at a
meeting of the Board, if —
(a) the notice in writing of the proposed resolution was given to each
member ; and
(b) the resolution is signed or assented to by a majority of members of
the Board, including the Director-General.

## Page 80

A 980           2022 No. 30 Civil Aviation Act, 2022
SECOND SCHEDULESection 55 (1) and (2)
MODIFICA TIONS TO THE CONVENTION FOR THE UNIFICATION
OF CERTAIN RULES RELATING TO INTERNATIONAL CARRIAGE
BY AIR DONE AT MONTREAL ON 28 MAY , 1999 APPLICABLE TO
DOMESTIC AIR TRANSPORTATION IN NIGERIA
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 1—SCOPE OF APPLICA TION
1. This Convention applies to all carriage of persons, baggage or cargo
performed by aircraft for reward within Nigeria. It applies equally to gratuitous
carriage by aircraft performed by an air transport undertaking.
2. Carriage to be performed by several successive carriers is deemed,
for the purposes of this Convention, to be one undivided carriage if it has been
regarded by the parties as a single operation, whether it had been agreed upon
under the form of a single contract or of a series of contracts.
3. This Convention applies also to carriage as set out in Chapter V ,
subject to the terms contained therein.
ARTICLE 2—CARRIAGE PERFORMED BY STA TE AND CARRIAGE
OF POSTAL MA TTERS
1. This Convention applies to carriage performed by the State or by
legally constituted public bodies, provided it falls within the conditions laid
down in article 1.
2. In the carriage of postal items, the carrier shall be liable only to the
relevant postal administration in accordance with the rules applicable to the
relationship between the carriers and the postal administrations.
3. Except as provided under article 2, the provisions of this Convention
shall not apply to the carriage of postal items.
CHAPTER II
DOCUMENTATION AND DUTIES OF THE PARTIES RELA TING TO
THE CARRIAGE OF PASSENGERS, BAGGAGE AND CARGO
ARTICLE 3 — PASSENGERS AND BAGGAGE
1. In respect of passengers, an individual or collective document of
carriage shall be delivered containing an indication of the places of departure
and destination.

## Page 81

2022  No. 30           A 981Civil Aviation Act, 2022
2. Any other means which preserves the information indicated in
paragraph 1 may be substituted for the delivery of the document referred to in
that paragraph. If any such other means is used, the carrier shall offer to
deliver to the passenger a written statement of the information so preserved.
3. The carrier shall deliver to the passenger a baggage identification tag
for each piece of checked baggage.
4. The passenger shall be given written notice to the effect that where
this Convention is applicable it governs and may limit the liability of carriers in
respect of death or injury and for destruction or loss of, or damage to, baggage
and for delay.
5. Non-compliance with the provisions of the foregoing paragraphs shall
not affect the existence or the validity of the contract of carriage, which shall
nonetheless, be subject to the rules of this Convention including those relating
to limitation of liability.
ARTICLE 4 — CARGO
1. In respect of the carriage of cargo, an air waybill shall be delivered.
2. Any other means which preserves a record of the carriage to be
performed may be substituted for the delivery of an air waybill. If such
other means are used, the carrier shall, if so requested by the consignor,
deliver to the consignor a cargo receipt permitting identification of the
consignment and access to the information contained in the record preserved
by such other means.
ARTICLE 5 — CONTENTS OF AIR WAYBILL OR CARGO RECEIPT
The air waybill or the cargo receipt shall include —
(a) an indication of the places of departure and destination ;
(b) an indication of the weight of the consignment.
ARTICLE 6—DOCUMENT RELATING TO THE NA TURE OF THE CARGO
The consignor may be required, if necessary to meet the formalities of
customs, police, and similar public authorities, to deliver a document indicating
the nature of the cargo. This provision creates for the carrier no duty, obligation
or liability resulting therefrom.
ARTICLE 7—DESCRIPTION OF AIR WAYBILL
1. The air waybill shall be made out by the consignor in three original parts.
2. The first part shall be marked “for the carrier” ; it shall be signed by
the consignor. The second part shall be marked “for the consignee” ; it shall
be signed by the consignor and by the carrier. The third part shall be signed by
the carrier who shall hand it to the consignor after the cargo has been accepted.

## Page 82

A 982           2022 No. 30 Civil Aviation Act, 2022
3. The signature of the carrier and that of the consignor may be printed
or stamped.
4. If, at the request of the consignor, the carrier makes out the air waybill,
the carrier shall be deemed, subject to proof to the contrary, to have done so
on behalf of the consignor.
ARTICLE 8 — DOCUMENTA TION FOR MULTIPLE PACKAGES
When there is more than one package —
(a) the carrier of cargo has the right to require the consignor to make out
separate air waybills ;
(b) the consignor has the right to require the carrier to deliver separate
cargo receipts when the other means referred to in paragraph 2 of article 4
are used.
ARTICLE 9 — NON-COMPLIANCE WITH DOCUMENTARY REQUIREMENT
Non-compliance with the provisions of articles 4 to 8 shall not affect the
existence or the validity of the contract of carriage, which shall nonetheless
be subject to the rules of this Convention including those relating to limitation
of liability.
ARTICLE 10 — RESPONSIBILITY FOR PARTICULARS OF DOCUMENTA TION
1.  The consignor is responsible for the correctness of the particulars
and statements relating to the cargo inserted by it or on its behalf in the air
waybill or furnished by it or on its behalf to the carrier for insertion in the
cargo receipt or for insertion in the record preserved by the other means
referred to in paragraph 2 of Article 4. The foregoing shall also apply where
the person acting on behalf of the consignor is also the agent of the carrier.
2.  The consignor shall indemnify the carrier against all damages suffered
by it, or by any other person to whom the carrier is liable, by reason of the
irregularity, incorrectness or incompleteness of the particulars and statements
furnished by the consignor or on its behalf.
3.  Subject to the provisions of articles 1 and 2, the carrier shall indemnify
the consignor against all damages suffered by it, or by any other person to
whom the consignor is liable by reason of the irregularity, incorrectness or
incompleteness of the particulars and statements inserted by the carrier on its
behalf in the cargo receipt or in the record preserved by the other means
referred to in paragraph 2 of article 4.

## Page 83

2022  No. 30           A 983Civil Aviation Act, 2022
ARTICLE 11 — EVIDENTIARY VALUE OF DOCUMENTA TION
1.  The air waybill or the cargo receipt is prima facie evidence of the
conclusion of the contract, of the acceptance of the cargo and of the conditions
of carriage mentioned therein.
2.  Any statements in the air waybill or the cargo receipt relating to the
weight, dimensions and packaging of the cargo, as well as those relating to the
number of packages, are prima facie evidence of the facts stated; those relating
to the quantity, volume and condition of the cargo do not constitute evidence
against the carrier except so far as they both have been, and are stated in the
air waybill or the cargo receipt to have been, checked by it in the presence of
the consignor, or relate to the apparent condition of the cargo.
ARTICLE 12 — RIGHT OF DISPOSITION OF CARGO
1.  Subject to its liability to carry out all its obligations under the contract
of carriage, the consignor has the right to dispose of the cargo by withdrawing
it at the airport of departure or destination, or by stopping it in the course of
the journey on any landing, or by calling for it to be delivered at the place of
destination or in the course of the journey to a person other than the consignee
originally designated, or by requiring it to be returned to the airport of departure.
The consignor must not exercise this right of disposition in such a way as to
prejudice the carrier or other consignors and must reimburse any expenses
occasioned by the exercise of this right.
2. If it is impossible to carry out the instructions of the consignor, the
carrier must so inform the consignor forthwith.
3. If the carrier carries out the instructions of the consignor for the
disposition of the cargo without requiring the production of the part of the air
waybill or the cargo receipt delivered to the latter, the carrier will be liable
without prejudice to its right of recovery from the consignor, for any damage
which may be caused thereby to any person who is lawfully in possession of
that part of the air way bill or the cargo receipt.
4. The right conferred on the consignor ceases at the moment when that
of the consignee begins in accordance with article 13, nevertheless, if the
consignee declines to accept the cargo, or cannot be communicated with, the
consignor resumes its right to disposition.
ARTICLE 13 — DELIVERY OF THE CARGO
1.  Except when the consignor has exercised its right under article 12,
the consignee is entitled, on arrival of the cargo at the place of destination, to
require the carrier to deliver the cargo to it, on payment of the charges due on
complying with the conditions of carriage.

## Page 84

A 984           2022 No. 30 Civil Aviation Act, 2022
2. Unless it is otherwise agreed, it is the duty of the carrier to give notice
to the consignee as soon as the cargo arrives.
3. If the carrier admits the loss of the cargo, or if the cargo has not
arrived at the expiration of two days after the date on which it ought to have
arrived, the consignee is entitled to enforce against the carrier the rights which
flow from the contract of carriage.
ARTICLE 14 — ENFORCEMENT OF THE RIGHTS OF CONSIGNOR AND CONSIGNEE
The consignor and the consignee can respectively enforce all the rights
given to them by articles 12 and 13, each in its own name, whether it is acting
in its own interest or in the interest of another, provided that it carries out the
obligations imposed by the contract of carriage.
ARTICLE 15 — RELATIONS OF CONSIGNOR AND CONSIGNEE OR MUTUAL
RELA TIONS OF THIRD PARTIES
1.  Articles 12, 13 and 14 do not affect either the relations of the consignor
and the consignee with each other or the mutual relations of third parties
whose rights are derived either from the consignor or from the consignee.
2.  The provisions of articles 12, 13 and 14 can only be varied by express
provisions in the air waybill or the cargo receipt.
ARTICLE 16 — FORMALITIES OF CUSTOMS, POLICE OR
OTHER PUBLIC AUTHORITIES
1. The consignor must furnish such information and such documents as
are necessary to meet the formalities of customs, police and any other public
authority before the cargo can be delivered to the consignee. The consignor is
liable to the carrier for any damage occasioned by the absence, insufficiency
or irregularity of any such information or documents, unless the damage is due
to the fault of the carrier, its servants or agents.
2. The carrier is under no obligation to enquire into the correctness or
sufficiency of such information or documents.
CHAPTER III
LIABILITY OF THE CARRIER AND EXTENT OF
COMPENSATION FOR DAMAGE
ARTICLE 17 — DEA TH AND INJURY OF PASSENGERS — DAMAGE TO BAGGAGE
1. The carrier is liable for damage sustained in case of death or bodily
injury of a passenger upon condition only that the accident which caused the
death or injury took place on board the aircraft or in the course of any of the
operations of embarking or disembarking.

## Page 85

2022  No. 30           A 985Civil Aviation Act, 2022
2. The carrier is liable for damage sustained in case of destruction or
loss of, or damage to, checked baggage upon condition only that the event
which caused the destruction, or loss or damage, took place on board the
aircraft or during any period within which the checked baggage was in the
charge of the carrier. However, the carrier is not liable if and to the extent that
the damage resulted from the inherent defect, quality or vice of the baggage.
In the case of unchecked baggage, including personal items, the carrier is
liable if the damage resulted from its fault or that of its servants or agents.
3. If the carrier admits the loss of checked baggage, or if the checked
baggage has not arrived at the expiration of seven days after the date on
which it ought to have arrived, the passenger is entitled to enforce against the
carrier the rights which flow from the contract of carriage.
4. Unless otherwise specified, in this Convention the term “baggage”
means both checked baggage and unchecked baggage.
ARTICLE 18 — DAMAGE OF CARGO
1.  The carrier is liable for damage sustained in the event of the destruction
or loss of, or damage to, cargo upon condition only that the event which caused
the damage so sustained took place during the carriage by air. However, the
carrier is not liable if and to the extent it proves that the destruction, or loss of,
or damage to, the cargo resulted from one or more of the following —
(a) inherent defect, quality or vice of that cargo ;
(b) defective packing of that cargo performed by a person other than
the carrier or its servants or agents ;
(c) an act of war or an armed conflict ;
(d) an act of a public authority carried out in connection with the entry,
exit or transit of the cargo.
2.  The carriage by air within the meaning of article 1 comprises the
period during which the cargo is in the charge of the carrier.
3. The period of the carriage by air does not extend to any carriage by
land, by sea or by inland waterway performed outside an airport. If, however,
such carriage takes place in the performance of a contract for carriage by air,
for the purpose of loading, delivery or transshipment, any damage is presumed,
subject to proof to the contrary, to have been the result of an event which took
place during the carriage by air.
(4)  If a carrier, without the consent of the consignor, substitutes carriage
by another mode of transport for the whole or part of a carriage intended by
the agreement between the parties to be carriage by air, such carriage by
another mode of transport is deemed to be within the period of carriage by air.

## Page 86

A 986           2022 No. 30 Civil Aviation Act, 2022
ARTICLE 19 — DELAY
The carrier is liable for damage occasioned by delay in the carriage by
air of passengers, baggage or cargo. Nonetheless, the carrier shall not be
liable for damage occasioned by delay if it proves that it and its servants and
agents took all measures that could reasonably be required to avoid the damage
or that it was impossible for it or them to take such measures.
ARTICLE 20 — EXONERA TION
1.  If the carrier proves that the damage was caused or contributed to by
the negligence or other wrongful act or omission of the person claiming
compensation, or the person from whom he or she derives his or her rights,
the carrier shall be wholly or partly exonerated from its liability to the claimant
to the extent that such negligence or wrongful act or omission caused or
contributed to the damage.
2.  When by reason of death or injury of a passenger compensation is
claimed by a person other than the passenger, the carrier shall likewise be
wholly or partly exonerated from its liability to the extent that it proves that the
damage was caused or contributed to by the negligence or other wrongful act
or omission of that passenger.
3. This article applies to all the liability provisions in this Convention,
including paragraph 1 of article 21.
ARTICLE 21 — COMPENSA TION IN CASE OF DEA TH OR INJURY OF PASSENGERS
1. For damages arising under paragraph 1 of article 17 not exceeding
100,000 United States Dollars for each passenger, the carrier shall not be able
to exclude or limit its liability.
2.  The carrier shall not be liable for damages arising under paragraph 1
of article 17 to the extent that they exceed for each passenger 100,000 United
States Dollars if the carrier proves that —
(a) such damage was not due to the negligence or other wrongful act or
omission of the carrier or its servants or agents ; or
(b) such damage was solely due to the negligence or other wrongful act
or omission of a third party.
ARTICLE 22 — LIMITS OF LIABILITY IN RELA TION TO DELAY,
BAGGAGE AND CARGO
1.  In the case of damage caused by delay as specified in article 19 in the
carriage of persons, the liability of the carrier for each passenger is limited to
4150 United States Dollars.

## Page 87

2022  No. 30           A 987Civil Aviation Act, 2022
2. In the carriage of baggage, the liability of the carrier in the case of
destruction, loss, damage or delay is limited to 1000 United States Dollars for
each passenger unless the passenger has made, at the time when the checked
baggage was handed over to the carrier, a special declaration of interest in
delivery at destination and has paid a supplementary sum if the case so requires.
In that case the carrier will be liable to pay a sum not exceeding the declared
sum, unless it proves that the sum is greater than the passenger’s actual interest
in delivery at destination.
3. In the carriage of cargo, the liability of the carrier in the case of
destruction, loss, damage or delay is limited to a sum of 20 United States
Dollars per kilogram, unless the consignor has made, at the time when the
package was handed over to the carrier, a special declaration of interest in
delivery at destination and has paid a supplementary sum if the case so requires.
In that case the carrier will be liable to pay a sum not exceeding the declared
sum, unless it proves that the sum is greater than the consignor’s actual interest
in delivery at destination.
4. In the case of destruction, loss, damage or delay of part of the cargo,
or of any object contained therein, the weight to be taken into consideration in
determining the amount to which the carrier’s liability is limited shall be only
the total weight of the package or packages concerned. Nonetheless, when
the destruction, loss, damage of a part of the cargo, or of an object contained
therein, affects the value of other packages covered by the same air waybill,
or the same receipt or, if they were not issued, by the same record preserved
by the other means referred to in paragraph 2 of article 4, the total weight of
such package or packages shall also be taken into consideration in determining
the limit of liability.
5. The foregoing provisions of articles 1 and 2 shall not apply if it is
proved that the damage resulted from an act or omission of the carrier, its
servants or agents, done with intent to cause damage or recklessly and with
knowledge that damage would probably result; provided that, in the case of
such act or omission of a servant or agent, it is proved that such servant or
agent was acting within the scope of its employment.
6.  The limits prescribed in article 21 and in this article shall not prevent
the court from awarding, in accordance with its own rules of procedure, in
addition, the whole or part of the court costs and of the other expenses of the
litigation incurred by the plaintiff, including interest and the foregoing provision
shall not apply if the amount of the damages awarded, including court costs
and other expenses of the litigation, does not exceed the sum which the carrier
has offered in writing to the plaintiff within a period of six months from the
date of the occurrence causing the damage, or before the commencement of
the action, if that is later.

## Page 88

A 988           2022 No. 30 Civil Aviation Act, 2022
ARTICLE 23 — CONVERSION OF MONETARY UNITS
The sums mentioned in articles 21 and 22 shall be converted to Naira at
the existing official exchange rate.
ARTICLE 24 — REVIEW OF LIMITS
Without prejudice to the provisions of article 25 of this Convention, the
limits of liability prescribed in articles 21, 22 and 23 shall be reviewed by the
Minister of Aviation upon advice by the Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority at
seven year intervals, the first of such review to take place at the end of the
seventh year following the date of coming into effect of this Act.
ARTICLE 25 — STIPULA TION ON LIMITS
A carrier may stipulate that the contract of carriage shall be subject to
higher limits of liability than those provided for in this Convention or to no
limits of liability whatsoever.
ARTICLE 26 — INV ALIDITY OF CONTRACTUAL PROVISIONS
Any provision tending to relieve the carrier of liability or to fix a lower
limit than that which is laid down in this Convention shall be null and void, but
the nullity of any such provision does not involve the nullity of the whole
contract, which shall remain subject to the provisions of this Convention.
ARTICLE 27 — FREEDOM TO CONTRACT
Nothing contained in this Convention shall prevent the carrier from refusing to
enter into any contract of carriage, from waiving any defences available under
the Convention, or from laying down conditions which do not conflict with the
provisions of this Convention.
ARTICLE 28 — ADVANCE PAYMENTS
In the case of aircraft accidents resulting in death or injury of passengers,
the carrier shall make advance payments without delay to the natural person
or persons who are entitled to claim compensation in order to meet the
immediate economic needs of such person or persons. Such advance payment
shall not constitute a recognition or of liability and may be offset against any
amounts subsequently paid as damages by the carrier.
ARTICLE 29 — BASIS OF CLAIMS
In the carriage of passengers, baggage and cargo, any action for damages,
however founded, whether under this Convention or in contract or in tort or
otherwise, can only be brought subject to the conditions and such limits of
liability as are set out in this Convention without prejudice to the question as to
who are the persons who have the right to bring suit and what are their
respective rights. In any such action, punitive, exemplary or any other non-
compensatory damages shall not be recoverable.

## Page 89

2022  No. 30           A 989Civil Aviation Act, 2022
ARTICLE 30 — SERVANTS, AGENTS — AGGREGA TION OF CLAIMS
1.  If an action is brought against a servant or agent of the carrier arising
out of damage to which the Convention relates, such servant or agent, if they
prove that they acted within the scope of their employment, shall be entitled to
avail themselves of the conditions and limits of liability which the carrier itself
is entitled to invoke under this Convention.
2.  The aggregate of the amounts recoverable from the carrier, its servants
and agents, in that case, shall not exceed the said limits.
3.  Save in respect of the carriage of cargo, the provisions of articles 1
and 2 shall not apply if it is proved that the damage resulted from an act or
omission of the servant or agent done with intent to cause damage or recklessly
and with knowledge that damage would probably result.
ARTICLE 31 — TIMELY NOTICE OF COMPLAINTS
1.  Receipt by the person entitled to delivery of checked baggage or
cargo without complaint is prima facie evidence that the same has been
delivered in good condition and in accordance with the document of carriage
or with the record preserved by the other means referred to in paragraph 2 of
article 3 and paragraph 2 of article 4.
2.  In the case of damage, the person entitled to delivery must complain
to the carrier forthwith after the discovery of the damage, and, at the latest,
within two days from the date of receipt in case of checked baggage and
seven days from the date of receipt in the case of cargo. In the case of delay,
the complaint must be made at the latest within fourteen days from the date
on which the baggage or cargo has been placed at his or her disposal.
3.  Every complaint must be made in writing and given and dispatched
within the times aforesaid.
4.  If no complaint is made within the times aforesaid, no action shall lie
against the carrier, save in the case of fraud.
ARTICLE 32 — DEA TH OF PERSON LIABLE
In the case of the death of the person liable, an action for damages lies
in accordance with the terms of this Convention against those legally
representing his or her estate.
ARTICLE 33 — ARBITRA TION
1.  Subject to the provisions of this article, the parties to the contract of
carriage for cargo may stipulate that any dispute relating to the liability of the
carrier under this Convention shall be settled by arbitration. Such agreement
shall be in writing.

## Page 90

A 990           2022 No. 30 Civil Aviation Act, 2022
2. The arbitrator or arbitration tribunal shall apply the provisions of this
Convention.
3. The provisions of paragraph 2 New Insertion of this article shall be
deemed to be part of every arbitration clause or agreement, and any term of
such clause or agreement which is inconsistent with the said paragraph shall
be null and void.
ARTICLE 34 — LIMITA TION OF ACTIONS
The right to damages shall be extinguished if an action is not brought
within a period of two years, reckoned from the date of arrival at the date of
destination, or from the date on which the aircraft ought to have arrived, or
from the date on which the carriage stopped.
ARTICLE 35 — SUCCESSIVE CARRIAGE
1.  In the case of carriage to be performed by various successive carriers
and falling within the definition set out in paragraph 3 of article 1, each carrier
which accepts passengers, baggage or cargo is subject to the rules set out in
this Convention and is deemed to be one of the parties to the contract of
carriage in so far as the contract deals with that part of the carriage which is
performed under its supervision.
2. In the case of carriage of this nature, the passenger or any person
entitled to compensation in respect of him or her can take action only against
the carrier which performed the carriage during which the accident or the
delay occurred, save in the case where, by express agreement, the first carrier
has assumed liability for the whole journey.
3.  As regards baggage or cargo, the passenger or consignor will have a
right of action against the first carrier, and the passenger or consignor who is
entitled to delivery will have a right of action against the last carrier, and
further, each may take action against the carrier which performed the carriage
during which the destruction, loss, damage or delay took place. These carriers
will be jointly and severally liable to the passengers or to the consignor or
consignee.
ARTICLE 36 — RIGHT TO RECOURSE AGAINST THIRD PARTIES
Nothing in this Convention shall prejudice the question whether a person
liable for damage in accordance with its provisions has a right of recourse
against any other person.

## Page 91

2022  No. 30           A 991Civil Aviation Act, 2022
CHAPTER IV
ARTICLE 37 — COMBINED CARRIAGE
1. In the case of combined carriage performed partly by air and partly
by any other mode of carriage, the provisions of this Convention shall, subject
to paragraph 4 of article 18, apply only to the carriage by air, provided that the
carriage by air falls within the terms of article 1.
2.  Nothing in this Convention shall prevent the parties in the case of
combined carriage from inserting in the documents of air carriage conditions
relating to other modes of carriage, provided that the provisions of this
Convention are observed as regards the carriage by air.
CHAPTER V
CARRIAGE BY AIR PERFORMED BY A PERSON OTHER THAN
THE CONTRACTING CARRIER
ARTICLE 38 — CONTRACTING CARRIER — ACTUAL CARRIER
The provisions of this Chapter apply when a person (hereinafter referred
to as “the contracting carrier”) as a principal makes a contract of carriage
governed by the Convention with a passenger or consignor or with a person
acting on behalf of the passenger or consignor, and another (hereinafter referred
to as ‘’the actual carrier’’), performs, by virtue of authority from the contracting
carrier, the whole or part of the carriage, but is not with respect to such a part
a successive carrier within the meaning of this Convention. Such authority
shall be presumed in the absence of proof to the contrary.
ARTICLE 39 — RESPECTIVE LIABILITY OF CONTRACTING AND ACTUAL CARRIERS
If an actual carrier performs the whole or part of carriage which,
according to the contract referred to in article 38 is governed by this Convention,
both the contracting carrier and the actual carrier shall, except as otherwise
provided in this chapter, be subject to the rules of this Convention, the former
for the whole of the carriage contemplated in the contract, the latter solely for
the carriage which it performs.
ARTICLE 40 — MUTUAL LIABILITY
1. The acts and omissions of the actual carrier and of its servants and
agents acting within the scope of their employment shall, in relation to the
carriage performed by the actual carrier, be deemed to be also those of the
contracting carrier.
2. The acts and omissions of the contracting carrier and of its servants
and agents acting within the scope of their employment shall, in relation to the
carriage performed by the actual carrier, be deemed to be also those of the

## Page 92

A 992           2022 No. 30 Civil Aviation Act, 2022
actual carrier. Nevertheless, no such act or omission shall subject the actual
carrier to liability exceeding the amounts referred to in articles 21, 22, 23 and
24.  Any special agreement under which the contracting carrier assumes
obligations not imposed by this Convention or any special declaration of interest
in delivery at destination contemplated in article 22 shall not affect the actual
carrier unless agreed to by it.
ARTICLE 41 — ADDRESSEE OF COMPLAINTS AND INSTRUCTIONS
Any complaint to be made or instruction to be given under this Convention
to the carrier shall have same effect whether addressed to the contracting
carrier or to the actual carrier. Nevertheless, instructions referred to in article
12 shall only be effective if addressed to the contracting carrier.
ARTICLE 42 — SERV ANTS AND AGENTS
In relation to the carriage performed by the actual carrier, any servant or
agent of that carrier or of the contracting carrier shall, if they prove that they
acted within the scope of their employment, be entitled to avail themselves of
the conditions and limits of liability which are applicable under this Convention
to the carrier whose servant or agent they are, unless it is proved that they
acted in a manner that prevents the limits of liability from being invoked in
accordance with this Convention.
Article 43 — Aggregation of damages
In relation to the carriage performed by the actual carrier, the aggregate
of the amounts recoverable from that carrier and the contracting carrier, and
from their servants and agents acting within the scope of their employment,
shall not exceed the highest amount which could be awarded against either
the contracting carrier or the actual carrier under this Convention, but none of
the persons mentioned shall be liable for a sum in excess of the limit applicable
to that person.
ARTICLE 44 — ADDRESSEE OF CLAIMS
In relation to the carriage performed by the actual carrier, an action for
damages may be brought, at the option of the plaintiff, against the carrier or
the contracting carrier, or against both together or separately. If the action is
brought against only one of those carriers, that carrier shall have the right to
require the other carrier to be joined in the proceedings, the procedure and
effects being governed by the law of the court seized of the case.
ARTICLE 45 — INV ALIDITY OF CONTRACTUAL PROVISIONS
Any contractual provision tending to relieve the contracting carrier or
the actual carrier of liability under this Chapter or to fix a lower limit than that
which is applicable according to this Chapter shall be null and void, but the

## Page 93

2022  No. 30           A 993Civil Aviation Act, 2022
nullity of any such provision does not involve the nullity of the whole contract,
which shall remain subject to the provisions of this Chapter.
ARTICLE 46 — MUTUAL RELA TIONS OF CONTRACTING AND ACTUAL CARRIERS
Except as provided in article 44, nothing in this Chapter shall affect the
rights and obligations of the carriers between themselves, including any right
of recourse to indemnification.
CHAPTER VI
OTHER PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 47 — MANDA TORY APPLICA TION
Any clause contained in the contract of carriage and all special agreements
entered into before the damage occurred by which the parties purport to infringe
the rules laid down by this Convention, whether by deciding the law to be
applied, or by altering the rules as to jurisdiction, shall be null and void.
ARTICLE 48 — CARRIAGE PERFORMED IN EXTRAORDINARY CIRCUMSTANCES
The provisions of articles 3 to 5, 7 and 8 relating to the documents of
carriage shall not apply in the case of carriage performed in extra-ordinary
circumstances outside the normal scope of a carrier’s business.
ARTICLE 49 — DEFINITION OF DAYS
The expression “days” when used in this Convention means working
days, not calendar days.
I, certify, in accordance with Section 2 (1) of the Acts Authentication Act,
Cap. A2, Laws of the Federation of  Nigeria 2004, that this is a true copy of
the Bill passed by both Houses of the National Assembly.
OJO O. A., fnia, fcia
Clerk to the National Assembly
18th Day of  July, 2022.

## Page 94

A 994           2022 No. 30 Civil Aviation Act, 2022
 EXPLANATORY  MEMORANDUM
This Act repeals the Civil Aviation Act, No. 6, 2006 and enacts the Civil Aviation
Act, 2022 to provide for an effective legal and institutional framework for the
regulation of civil aviation in Nigeria in order to promote aviation safety and
security, ensure that Nigeria’s obligations under international aviation
agreements are implemented, and consolidate the law relating to civil aviation
regulation in Nigeria.

## Page 95

2022  No. 30           A 995Civil Aviation Act, 2022
SCHEDULE TO THE CIVIL AVIATION BILL, 2022
(2)Long Title of theBill
(5)Date Passed bythe House ofRepresentatives(4)Date Passed bythe Senate(3)Summary of theContents of the Bill
An Act to repeal the Civil AviationAct, No. 6, 2006 and enact the CivilAviation Act, 2022 for the regulationof civil aviation in Nigeria ; and forrelated matters.This Bill repeals the Civil Aviation Act,No. 6, 2006 and enacts the CivilAviation Act, 2022 for the regulation ofcivil aviation in Nigeria.1st February,2022.21st December,2021.
I certify that this Bill has been carefully compared by me with the decision reached by the National Assembly and found by me to be
true and correct decision of the Houses and is in accordance with the provisions of the Acts Authentication Act Cap. A2, Laws of
the Federation of Nigeria, 2004.I ASSENT
               OJO O. A., fnia, fciaClerk to the National Assembly18th Day of  July, 2022.MUHAMMADU  BUHARI, GCFRPresident of the Federal Republic of Nigeria16th Day of  August, 2022.
LS(1)Short Titleof the BillCivilAviationBill, 2022.
